CODE OF ORDINANCES TOWN OF GREENVILLE, FLORIDA


--------------------------------------------------
GREENVILLE OFFICIALS


This Code constitutes a codification of the general and permanent ordinances of the
            Town of Greenville, Florida.
Source materials used in the preparation of the Code were the ordinances of a permanent
            and general nature adopted by the town council. The source of each section is included
            in the history note appearing in parentheses at the end thereof. The absence of such
            a note indicates that the section is new and was adopted for the first time with the
            adoption of the Code.
The chapters of the Code have been conveniently arranged in alphabetical order, and
            the various sections within each chapter have been catchlined to facilitate usage.
            Notes which tie related sections of the Code together and which refer to relevant
            state law have been included. A table listing the state law citations and setting
            forth their location within the Code is included at the back of this Code.
The chapter and section numbering system used in this Code is the same system used
            in many state and local government codes. Each section number consists of two parts
            separated by a dash. The figure before the dash refers to the chapter number, and
            the figure after the dash refers to the position of the section within the chapter.
            Thus, the second section ofchapter 1is numbered 1-2, and the first section ofchapter 6is6-1. Under this system, each section is identified with its chapter, and at the same
            time new sections can be inserted in their proper place by using the decimal system
            for amendments. For example, if new material consisting of one section that would
            logically come between sections6-1and6-2is desired to be added, such new section would be numbered 6-1.5. New articles and
            new divisions may be included in the same way or, in the case of articles, may be
            placed at the end of the chapter embracing the subject, and, in the case of divisions,
            may be placed at the end of the article embracing the subject. The next successive
            number shall be assigned to the new article or division. New chapters may be included
            by using one of the reserved chapter numbers. Care should be taken that the alphabetical
            arrangement of chapters is maintained when including new chapters.
The page numbering system used in this Code is a prefix system. The letters to the
            left of the colon are an abbreviation which represents a certain portion of the volume.
            The number to the right of the colon represents the number of the page in that portion.
            In the case of a chapter of the Code, the number to the left of the colon indicates
            the number of the chapter. In the case of an appendix to the Code, the letter immediately
            to the left of the colon indicates the letter of the appendix. The following are typical
            parts of codes of ordinances, which may or may not appear in this Code at this time,
            and their corresponding prefixes:
The indexes have been prepared with the greatest of care. Each particular item has
            been placed under several headings, some of which are couched in lay phraseology,
            others in legal terminology, and still others in language generally used by local
            government officials and employees. There are numerous cross references within the
            indexes themselves which stand as guideposts to direct the user to the particular
            item in which the user is interested.
A special feature of this publication is the looseleaf system of binding and supplemental
            servicing of the publication. With this system, the publication will be kept up to
            date. Subsequent amendatory legislation will be properly edited, and the affected
            page or pages will be reprinted. These new pages will be distributed to holders of
            copies of the publication, with instructions for the manner of inserting the new pages
            and deleting the obsolete pages.
Keeping this publication up to date at all times will depend largely upon the holder
            of the publication. As revised pages are received, it will then become the responsibility
            of the holder to have the amendments inserted according to the attached instructions.
            It is strongly recommended by the publisher that all such amendments be inserted immediately
            upon receipt to avoid misplacing them and, in addition, that all deleted pages be
            saved and filed for historical reference purposes.
This publication was under the direct supervision of Mollie M. Garrett, Code Attorney,
            and Amanda Heath, Editor, of the Municipal Code Corporation, Tallahassee, Florida.
            Credit is gratefully given to the other members of the publisher's staff for their
            sincere interest and able assistance throughout the project.
The publisher is most grateful to Kimberly Reams, Town Clerk, Edward W. Dean, Town
            Manager, and John Reid, Esq., Town Attorney, for their cooperation and assistance
            during the progress of the work on this publication. It is hoped that their efforts
            and those of the publisher have resulted in a Code of Ordinances which will make the
            active law of the town readily accessible to all citizens and which will be a valuable
            tool in the day-to-day administration of the town's affairs.
All editorial enhancements of this Code are copyrighted by Municipal Code Corporation
            and the Town of Greenville, Florida. Editorial enhancements include, but are not limited
            to: organization; table of contents; section catchlines; prechapter section analyses;
            editor's notes; cross references; state law references; numbering system; code comparative
            table; state law reference table; and index. Such material may not be used or reproduced
            for commercial purposes without the express written consent of Municipal Code Corporation
            and the Town of Greenville, Florida.
BE IT ORDAINED BY THE TOWN COUNCIL OF THE TOWN OF GREENVILLE, FLORIDA, that:
Section 1.The Code, entitled "The Code of Ordinances of the Town of Greenville, Florida," published
            by Municipal Code Corporation, consisting of chapters 1 through26, each inclusive, is adopted.
Section 2.All ordinances of a general and permanent nature enacted on or before January 21,
            2020, and not included in the Code or recognized and continued in force by reference
            therein, are repealed.
Section 3.The repeal provided for insection 2hereof shall not be construed to revive any ordinance or part thereof that has been
            repealed by a subsequent ordinance that is repealed by this ordinance.
Section 4.Unless another penalty is expressly provided, every person convicted of a violation
            of any provision of the Code or any ordinance, rule or regulation adopted or issued
            in pursuance thereof shall be punished pursuant to § 162.22, Florida Statutes, as
            it may be amended from time to time, by a fine not to exceed that amount set forth
            by state law, imprisonment for a term not to exceed that set forth by state law, or
            any combination thereof; pursuant to § 162.21, Florida Statutes, as it may be amended
            from time to time, by a civil penalty not to exceed that amount set forth by state
            law; pursuant to § 162.09, Florida Statutes, as it may be amended from time to time,
            if enforcement is by the code enforcement board or a special magistrate, by a fine
            that shall not exceed those amounts set forth by state law for a first violation,
            for a repeat violation, and per violation if the code enforcement board or special
            magistrate finds the violation to be irreparable or irreversible in nature. Such fines
            for each day the violation continues past the date set by. the enforcement board or
            special magistrate for compliance or, in the case of a repeat violation, for each
            day the repeat violation continues, beginning with the date the repeat violation is
            found to have occurred by the code enforcement board or special magistrate.. Each
            act of violation and each day upon which any such violation shall continue or occur
            shall constitute a separate offense. The penalty provided by this section, unless
            another penalty is expressly provided, shall apply to the amendment of any Code section,
            whether or not such penalty is reenacted in the amendatory ordinance. In addition
            to the penalty prescribed above, the Town of Greenville, Florida, may pursue other
            remedies such as abatement of nuisances, injunctive relief and revocation of licenses
            or permits.
Section 5.Additions or amendments to the Code when passed in such form as to indicate the intention
            of the Town Council of the Town of Greenville, Florida, to make the same a part of
            the Code shall be deemed to be incorporated in the Code, so that reference to the
            Code includes the additions and amendments.
Section 6.Ordinances adopted after January 21, 2020, that amend or refer to ordinances that
            have been codified in the Code shall be construed as if they amend or refer to like
            provisions of the Code.
Section 7. Effective Date.This Ordinance shall take effect immediately upon its passage.
Following the reading of the foregoing resolution, the Honorable Calvin Malone moved
            that the foregoing resolution be adopted. The Honorable Brandi Tillman seconded the
            motion for its adoption.
The Honorable Brittni Brown put the question to a roll call vote, and the result was
            as follows:
PASSED AND ADOPTED by the Town Council of the Town of Greenville, Florida, this 13th
            day of July, 2020.
--------------------------------------------------



SUPPLEMENT HISTORY TABLE


The table below allows users of this Code to quickly and accurately determine what
            ordinances have been considered for codification in each supplement. Ordinances that
            are of a general and permanent nature are codified in the Code Book and are considered
            "Included." Ordinances that are not of a general and permanent nature are not codified
            in the Code Book and are considered "Omitted."
--------------------------------------------------



CHARTER COMPARATIVE TABLE - LEGISLATION


This table shows the location of the sections of the basic Charter and any amendments
            thereto.
--------------------------------------------------



PART I - CHARTER[1]


--------------------------------------------------
Section 1. - Generally.


The citizens of the Town of Greenville, Madison County, Florida, on April 15, 1992,
               by Ordinance 187, and by subsequent amendments, reaffirmed a municipality known as
               the Town of Greenville. The Town of Greenville is a public body politic and corporate
               which shall have perpetual succession.
The charter of the Town of Greenville, Florida is hereby repealed, amended, and reenacted
               pursuant to the Municipal Home Rule Powers Act, chapter 166, Fla. Stat., and more
               specifically, section 166.031, Fla. Stat.
--------------------------------------------------
Section 2. - Town boundaries.


The metes and bounds legal description of the Town boundaries of the Town of Greenville,
               Florida remain unchanged. The legal description is not redefined in this repeal, amended,
               and reenacted charter pursuant to subsections 166.031(1) and (3), Fla. Stat.; however,
               the Town boundaries are set forth by metes and bounds legal description as Appendix
               "A" of this Charter.
Future Town Councils shall, from time to time by succeeding ordinances, redefine the
               Town boundaries to reflect future annexations, enlargement, consolidation, and contractions,
               and such future redefine Town boundary shall also then be known as the "Official Town
               Boundaries of the Town of Greenville, Florida" and shall supersede prior redefined
               Town boundaries.
--------------------------------------------------
Section 3. - Carryover of elected officers, property rights, ordinances, obligations, and contracts.


All current elected officers holding office on the effective date of this charter
               shall continue in office until their present respective terms shall expire. The Town
               of Greenville shall succeed to, own, possess, and hold all real property and all tangible
               and intangible personal property, and shall succeed to all existing federal and state
               grants, all uncollected taxes, dues, claims, judgments, and causes in action owned,
               possessed, or held by the municipality. The Town of Greenville shall also have, exercise,
               and enjoy all the rights, immunities, powers, benefits, privileges, and franchises
               now possessed, owned, or held by it.
All ordinances and resolutions lawfully passed and in force in said Town of Greenville
               shall remain in force until amended or repealed by the Town Council or repealed by
               operation of law; in all obligations and contracts of the Town of Greenville shall
               remain fully enforceable.
--------------------------------------------------
Section 4. - Town powers.


As provided in art. VIII, section 2.(b), Florida Constitution, and section 166.021,
               Fla. Stat., the Town of Greenville shall have governmental, corporate, and proprietary
               powers to enable it to conduct municipal government, perform municipal functions,
               render municipal services, and exercise any power for municipal purposes except as
               otherwise provided by law.
The Town Council of the Town of Greenville, Florida is the legislative body of the
               Town of Greenville, Florida, and is elected. All legislative power is vested to the
               Town Council. Without disparaging or limiting the general power set forth herein and
               in subsection (a) above, the Town Council may have the following enumerated powers:
Police; Fire/EMS; Code Enforcement; Interlocal Agreements; and Other Departments.Exercise the inherent police power of the Town of Greenville by establishing and
               maintaining a suitable police department, fire protection department, emergency services
               department, code enforcement department, and any other departments and quasi-judicial
               boards necessary for the safety, health, and welfare of the people of the Town of
               Greenville, or at the election of the Town Council, enter into sufficient interlocal
               agreements, contracts, and other agreements for the provision of these services as
               well as any other municipal services as are necessary to protect the public health,
               morals, welfare, and safety of the people of the Town of Greenville, unless preempted,
               by or inconsistent with general or special law, and by unanimous vote of the Town
               Council, abolish any municipal department.
Town Manager.By a majority vote, the Town Council shall hire and retain, or may discharge and
               terminate a Town Manager pursuant tosection 4(b)(5). The Town Manager is a Charter Officer. The Town Manager when necessary shall
               appoint, suspend, demote, or dismiss any Town employee under his or her jurisdiction
               in accordance with law and the personnel rules and may authorize any Department Head
               to exercise these powers with respect to subordinates in that department. The Town
               Manager shall direct and supervise the administration of all departments of the Town
               of Greenville, except the Offices of Town Clerk and Town Attorney. The Town Manager
               shall attend all Town Council meetings unless excused by the Town Council and shall
               have the right to take part in discussions, but not vote. The Town Manager shall see
               that all laws, charter provisions, ordinances, resolutions, and other acts of the
               Town Council, subject to enforcement by the Town Manager are faithfully executed.
               The Town Manager shall also prepare and submit the annual budget, budget message,
               and capital program to the Town Council, and shall keep the Town Council fully advised
               as to the financial condition and future needs of the Town of Greenville. The Town
               Manager shall make such recommendations to the Town Council concerning the affairs
               of the Town of Greenville as he or she deems desirable. The Town Manager shall designate
               a qualified Town employee to exercise the powers and perform the duties of the Town
               Manager during any temporary absence or disability of the Town Manager. The Town Council
               may revoke such designation at any time and appoint another eligible person, other
               than a currently sitting member of the Town Council, to serve as Acting Town Manager
               of the Town of Greenville, Florida.
Town Clerk.By a majority vote, the Town Council shall hire and retain, or may discharge and
               terminate a Town Clerk pursuant tosection 4(b)(5). The Town Clerk is a Charter Officer. The Town Clerk shall give notice of all
               Town meetings to the members of the Town Council and the public as required by law.
               The Town Clerk shall attend such meetings in person, or by designee, and shall keep
               minutes of the proceedings. The Town Clerk shall authenticate by signature and be
               custodian of this Charter, all ordinances, resolutions, and other Town documents and
               shall perform such other duties as require by law or by the Town Council. The Town
               Clerk shall be the supervisor of elections for the Town of Greenville, Florida. The
               Town Clerk when necessary shall appoint, suspend, demote, or dismiss any employee
               in the Office of the Town Clerk in accordance with law and the personnel rules of
               the Town of Greenville. The Town Clerk shall prepare annual budgets for the operation
               of the Office of the Town Clerk and the Town Council and shall submit these budgets
               to the Town Manager of the Town of Greenville, Florida, for inclusion in the annual
               Town budget in accordance with uniform Town procedures.
Town Attorney.By a majority vote, the Town Council shall hire and retain, or may discharge and
               terminate a Town Attorney pursuant tosection 4(b)(5). The Town Attorney is a Charter Officer. The Town Attorney shall be a member
               in good standing of the Florida Bar and shall be the legal advisor to the Town of
               Greenville, Florida. The Town Attorney, or his or her designee, shall attend Town
               Council meetings as requested by the Town Council and perform such professional duties
               as may be required of him by law or by the Town Council.
Removal of Charter Officer.To remove a Charter Officer, the Town Council shall adopt a preliminary resolution
               stating reasons for the intended removal, shall offer the Charter Officer an opportunity
               for a public hearing before the Town Council on the matters raised by the resolution,
               and shall explicitly identify the time limits to take said action. This preliminary
               resolution may also suspend the Charter Officer from duty immediately with pay. Any
               written motion for removal of a Charter Office or similar paper prepared by any Town
               Council member shall constitute a preliminary resolution for purposes of this subsection
               and shall be immediately placed on the agenda of the next regularly scheduled meeting
               upon receipt by the Town Clerk. The Charter Officer must accept the offer of a public
               hearing or file a written response within ten (10) days of the adoption of the preliminary
               resolution. If the Charter Officer fails to act within ten (10) days, the resolution
               becomes final at the end of this ten (10) day period, and the Charter Officer is terminated
               on that date. If the public hearing is requested, it shall be held not earlier than
               ten (10) business days nor later than fifteen (15) business days after the adoption
               of the preliminary resolution. After any such public hearing, or after consideration
               of any written response, the Town Council shall adopt a final resolution of removal
               or let the preliminary resolution lapse.
Implied powers.In addition to those enumerated powers set forth above, the Town of Greenville shall
               have all governmental and proprietary powers necessarily implied or incident thereto.
--------------------------------------------------
Section 5. - Corporate authority; election of Town Council and mayor; qualifications for election.


The corporate authority of the Town of Greenville shall be vested in the Town Council,
               and the Town Council shall constitute the governing body and shall be solely vested
               with all legislative power and authority of the Town of Greenville, and shall have
               and exercise all home rule powers for valid municipal purposes, except as otherwise
               provided by the Florida Constitution and general or special law.
The Town Council shall consist of five (5) Council members who shall be registered
               electors who have resided for a period of six (6) months within the municipal boundaries
               of the Town of Greenville at the time of qualifying. Qualification shall be not less
               than 50 days and not more than 60 days before each election. Town Council members
               shall continuously reside within the municipal boundaries of the Town during their
               terms of office. Town Council members shall be elected for a term of two (2) years
               beginning on the second Thursday in November of the year elected.
The next election for the Town Council members shall be on the second Tuesday in November
               2020, at which Groups 3 and 4 shall be elected. Groups 1, 2, and 5 shall next be elected
               on the second Tuesday in November 2021.
On the second Thursday of November 2020, and on the second Thursday in November of
               each year thereafter, the Town Council, as then constituted, shall elect from its
               membership a Mayor and Vice Mayor, who shall each serve as Mayor and Vice Mayor, respectively,
               for a term of one (1) year ending on the second Thursday in November of the year following.
               The Mayor and Vice Mayor shall serve at the pleasure of the Town Council and may be
               removed by a majority vote at a duly noticed public meeting. The duties and responsibilities
               of the Mayor and Vice Mayor, respectively, shall be consistent with but in addition
               to the duties of Town Council members and shall be ex officio and ministerial in nature.
The Town Council shall not delegate to the Mayor and/or Vice Mayor any power to independently
               exercise any portion of the sovereign municipal power of the Town Council, and any
               such delegation is void. Neither the Town Council nor any of its members shall in
               any manner dictate the appointment or removal of any Town employee except the Charter
               Officers. Neither the Town Council nor any of its members shall give orders to any
               employee other than Town Council orders to a Charter Officer. The Town Council or
               its members shall deal on all matters through the appropriate Charter Officer.
The Vice Mayor shall act in place of the Mayor and only in the absence of the Mayor.
Town Council members are public officers and the powers and duties of Town Council
               members are held in trust for the people of the Town of Greenville, Florida. No person
               convicted of a felony or adjudicated in Florida or any other state to be mentally
               incapacitated is qualified to hold office as a Town Council member until their civil
               rights are restored or the disability is removed. Before entering office, each Town
               Council person shall take the oath set forth in article II, section 5.(b), Florida
               Constitution, and give any bond required by law.
--------------------------------------------------
Section 6. - Qualifications of elected officials; canvassing board; meeting; vacancies; removal from office; renumeration; Mayor.


The Town Council, by ordinance, may also prescribe qualifications for election, procedures
               and time periods for qualification for elections, filing fees, and other matters related
               to placing of names of candidates on the ballot, the manner and timing of general
               and special elections, and polling places. Upon a vacancy in candidacy caused by the
               death, withdrawal, or removal from the ballot of a qualified candidate following the
               end of the qualifying period which leaves fewer than two (2) candidates for office,
               any remaining candidate may run unopposed, or the Town Council may, by ordinance,
               prescribe a procedure for filling the vacancy. Provided further, however, the laws
               of the State of Florida relating to qualifications for election, and all other particulars
               in respect of elections, so far as the same may be applicable and legally inconsistent
               with the foregoing, shall govern all elections in the Town of Greenville, Florida.
Except as otherwise provided in the Florida Constitution, section 286.011, Fla. Stat.
               (the Florida Sunshine Law), shall control all meetings of the Town Council at which
               official acts are to be taken, and shall control any gathering or meeting of two (2)
               or more Town Council members at which there is discussion of some matter which will
               foreseeably come before the Town Council. Except as provided in the Florida Sunshine
               Law, all such meetings are public meetings, open to the public at all times, and no
               formal action shall be considered binding except as taken or made at such meetings.
The Town Council shall meet in regular meetings once per month, and at such special
               meetings as are called pursuant to town policy.
Meeting[s] shall be held in any public place in the Town of Greenville. Reasonable
               notice of all meetings of the Town Council shall be provided by the Town Clerk or
               Deputy Town Clerk. A majority of the duly elected Town Council members shall constitute
               a quorum at a meeting and acts done when less than a quorum is present are void.
No Town Council member present at any public meeting may abstain from any vote, and
               votes shall be recorded for each such Town Council person present, unless, with respect
               to any Town Council member, there is or appears to be a possible conflict of interest,
               or if a quasi-judicial proceeding by the Town Council, a Town Council member must
               abstain to assure a fair and unbiased proceeding. In either case, the affected Town
               Council member shall abstain in accordance with the procedures set forth in section
               112.3143, Fla. Stat. The remaining Town Council persons, as long as a quorum is present,
               may decide the issue at hand and any tie vote results in the issue or motion being
               lost.
Additions and deletions to the agenda shall be by majority vote upon proper motion.
               Meeting shall be conducted generally in accordance with Robert's Rules of Order. The
               Town Council shall adopt its own procedures for conducting meetings of the Town Council.
               The vote of each Town Council member shall be recorded and counted. Unless otherwise
               provided by general law or special law, or otherwise provided by this charter or by
               ordinance, a majority vote is sufficient to pass and approve a motion or item. Minutes
               of each meeting or workshop of the Town Council shall be properly recorded and open
               to public inspection; however, no official legislative action may be taken in any
               workshop. Sound or video recording may be used to record all proceedings of all public
               meetings from which written minutes shall be transcribed, which such transcribed written
               minutes being a brief summary or series of brief summary of the events of the public
               meeting.
Any meeting of an elected board such as the Town Council, or appointed board, such
               as one created by the Town Council, at which two (2) or more individual Town Council
               members, or two (2) or more appointed board members, respectively, are present and
               at which official acts, as set forth above, are to be taken, is a public meeting under
               the Florida Sunshine Law. Any Town Council member attending a non-Town Council public
               meeting at which there is discussion regarding items that may foreseeably come before
               the Town Council shall report such discussion at the next Town Council meeting.
A vacancy in office of the Town Council member occurs on death, resignation as of
               the effective date of the resignation, or by resignation caused by the succession
               of a Town Council member to another office. A vacancy also occurs upon resignation
               in a recall pursuant to section 100.361, Fla. Stat. In the event of a vacancy, such
               vacancies shall be filled by appointment by majority vote of the Town Council, and
               such appointment shall continue until the end of the elected term of the dead or resigned
               Town Council member. A Town Council person may be suspended and/or removed from office
               by the Governor pursuant to chapter 112, part V, Fla. Stat., and a suspension by the
               Governor creates a temporary vacancy which shall be filled by appointment by majority
               vote of the Town Council. The appointed person shall hold office for a time period
               equal to the first occurring of the end of the elected term of the suspended person
               or the end of the period of the suspension. No person who has been suspended may perform
               any official act, duty, or function during the suspension, or receive any pay, allowance,
               or emolument during the suspension. Upon conviction as defined in chapter 112, Fla.
               Stat., such person shall be removed from office by the Governor and shall be ineligible
               to again stand for election during the next immediate election. Upon acquittal, the
               Town Council member shall be restored and shall receive back pay only for the elected
               term of office during which the Town Council person was suspended, and if the elected
               term of office has ended, the Town Council member shall not be restored to office
               but may again seek to qualify and stand for election. A vacancy without resignation
               may occur pursuant to the uniform statewide recall provisions of section 100.361,
               Fla. Stat., and said vacancy shall be filled pursuant to section 100.361, Fla. Stat.
--------------------------------------------------
Section 7. - Compensation of Town Council.


Upon adoption of this section, each member of the Town Council shall receive as compensation
               for serving as a member of the Town Council an amount of two hundred and fifty dollars
               ($250.00) per month.
The above compensation may be changed by town ordinance, passed by the Town Council
               pursuant to section 166.041, Florida Statutes, subject to the following restrictions:
The Town Council may not increase compensation by an amount greater than forty percent
               (40%) the base compensation at the time the ordinance is proposed.
The Town Council shall face no restriction on the amount it may decrease compensation.
A supermajority of 80-percent of the Town Council shall be required for any and all
               increases in compensation.
In cases when the Town Council increases the compensation, said increase shall not
               take effect until the first month immediately following the next election of the Town
               Council, regardless of when the ordinance is adopted.
--------------------------------------------------
Section 8. - Procedure for enactment of ordinances and other legislation.


The Town Council shall have such governmental, corporate, and proprietary powers as
               to enable it to conduct municipal government, perform municipal functions, and exercise
               any power for municipal purposes, except as otherwise provided by law. These powers
               shall be exercised by the adoption of ordinances, resolutions, and other official
               enactments, and in their perfection, the Town Council shall follow the substantive
               and procedural requirements of section 166.041, Fla. Stat., or other applicable provisions
               of Florida law. The ordaining clause of every ordinance shall be as follows: BE IT
               ENACTED BY THE TOWN COUNCIL OF THE TOWN OF GREENVILLE, FLORIDA.
--------------------------------------------------
Section 9. - Budgeting; borrowing; procurement.


The Town of Greenville shall report its finances annually and shall have a fiscal
               year beginning October 1 of each year and ending on September 30 of the following
               year and shall adopt a budget each fiscal year by ordinance, which budget shall regulate
               all expenditures of the Town of Greenville, Florida. The amount available from taxation
               and other sources, including balances brought forward from prior fiscal years, must
               equal the total appropriations for expenditures and reserves. The tentative budget
               must be posted on the Town of Greenville official website at least two (2) days before
               the final budget hearing and the final adopted budget must be posted on said website
               within 30 days after adoption. The budget may be amended during or after the fiscal
               year, pursuant to general law, and any surplus budget funds must be invested pursuant
               to general law. As permitted by the Florida Constitution and general or special law,
               the Town of Greenville may borrow money, contract loans, and issue bonds from time
               to time to finance the undertaking of capital or other projects for public purposes
               and may pledge the funds, credit, property, and taxing powers of the Town of Greenville
               for the payment of such debts and bonds. However, as provided an art. VII, section
               10, Florida Constitution, the Town of Greenville may not give, lend, or use its taxing
               power or credit to aid any corporation, association, partnership, or person, or become
               a joint owner or stockholder in any such entity or person. The Town of Greenville
               shall seek and obtain any appropriated state of Florida funds and state-shared revenues
               and grants available to municipalities.
The procurement and purchase of commodities, insurance, contractual services, and
               other items shall be effectuated in accordance with Town of Greenville ordinances
               and administrative and purchasing manuals, if said ordinances and manuals have not
               been preempted by or are legally inconsistent with controlling provisions of the Florida
               Constitution and general or special laws.
--------------------------------------------------
Section 10. - Intent of powers; amending charter; conflicting laws; headings; severability.


Where a[sic] particular powers are especially conferred in this charter, it is the
               intent of this charter that such specific powers include all powers that are fairly
               implied within the terms of the grant of those specific powers, so long as not in
               conflict with the Florida Constitution, or general or special law. Florida Statutes
               cited in this charter encompass and include any and all successor Florida Statutes
               addressing the same topic.
This Charter may be amended in accordance with the provisions for Charter Amendments
               as specified in chapter 166, Fla. Stat. (Municipal Home Rule Powers Act), or its successor.
               The form, content, and certification of any petition to amend shall be established
               by ordinance. The Town Council may amend provisions and language out of this charter
               which have been judicially construed, either by judgment or by binding legal precedent
               to the contrary to the Florida Constitution or the Federal Constitution. All ordinances
               and other local laws in conflict with the provisions of this charter, including provisions
               of any prior charter which have become ordinances by operation of law, are hereby
               repealed.
Section headings in this charter are included for convenience only and shall not affect
               the construction or interpretation of any provision of this charter.
In the event that any portion or provision of this charter is held by any court to
               be unconstitutional or inoperative, that invalidity shall in no way effect the remaining
               portions and provisions of this charter.
--------------------------------------------------
Section 11. - Effective date.


This amended, revised, and reenacted charter shall be effective upon filing with the
               Florida Department of State.
--------------------------------------------------
CHARTER APPENDIX A. - DESCRIPTION OF CORPORATE BOUNDARY


The Town of Greenville is established in Madison County, Florida, the territorial
            area of which shall be as follows: Beginning at the center ofSection 21, thence running east for a quarter of a mile; thence running south one-half of a
            mile; thence running west one-quarter of a mile; thence running south one-quarter
            of a mile; thence running west one-quarter of a mile; thence running south one-quarter
            of a mile; thence running west to Greenville Southern Railroad; thence running north
            along said railroad to the northwest corner of the southwest quarter of the northeast
            quarterSection 20; thence running east one mile; thence running south one-quarter of a mile to the
            point of beginning, the same being in Township 1 north, Range 7 east.
--------------------------------------------------



Chapter 1 - GENERAL PROVISIONS


--------------------------------------------------
Sec. 1-1. - How Code designated and cited.


The ordinances embraced in the following chapters and sections shall constitute and
               be designated as the "Code of Ordinances, Town of Greenville, Florida," and may be
               cited as the "Greenville Town Code."
--------------------------------------------------
Sec. 1-2. - Definitions and rules of construction.


The following definitions and rules of construction shall apply to this Code and to
               all ordinances, unless the context requires otherwise:
Generally.
When provisions conflict, the specific shall prevail over the general and the more
                  stringent provision shall always prevail. The interpretation and application of any
                  provision of this Code shall be held to be the minimum requirement adopted for the
                  promotion of the public health, safety, comfort, convenience and general welfare.
All provisions shall be liberally construed so that the intent of the town council
                  can be effectuated.
Words and phrases shall be construed according to the common and approved usage of
                  the language, but technical words, technical phrases and words and phrases that have
                  acquired peculiar and appropriate meanings in law shall be construed according to
                  such meanings.
Grammatical errors shall not vitiate, and a transposition of words and clauses may
                  be resorted to when the sentence or clause is without meaning as it stands.
Scrivener's errors shall be ignored and may be corrected by the town attorney pursuant
                  to the town attorney section of this Code.
Charter.The term "Charter" means the Charter of the Town of Greenville, Florida, as amended.
Code.The term "Code" or "this Code" means the Code of Ordinances, Town of Greenville,
               Florida, as designated insection 1-1.
Computation of time.In computing any period of time prescribed or allowed by this Code, the day of the
               act, event or default from which the designated period of time begins to run shall
               not be included. The last day of the period computed shall be included unless it is
               a Saturday, Sunday or legal holiday, in which event the period shall run until the
               end of the next day which is neither a Saturday, Sunday or legal holiday. When the
               period of time prescribed or allowed is less than seven days, intermediate Saturdays,
               Sundays and legal holidays shall be excluded in the computation.
Conjunctions.In a provision involving two or more items, conditions, provisions or events, which
               items, conditions, provisions or events are connected by the conjunction "and," "or"
               or "either … or," the conjunction shall be interpreted as follows, except that the
               term "or" may be read "and," and the term "and" may be read "or," if the sense requires
               it:
The term "and" indicates that all the connected terms, conditions, provisions or events
                  apply.
The term "or" indicates that the connected terms, conditions, provisions or events
                  apply singly or in any combination.
The term "either … or" indicates that the connected terms, conditions, provisions
                  or events apply singly but not in combination.
County.The term "county" means Madison County.
Day.The term "day" means a calendar day of 24 hours.
Delegation of authority.Whenever a provision appears requiring the head of a department to do some act or
               to make certain inspections, it is to be construed to authorize the head of the department
               to designate, delegate and authorize subordinates to perform the required act or to
               make the required inspection unless the terms of the provision or section designated
               otherwise.
F.A.C.The abbreviation "F.A.C." refers to the Florida Administrative Code, as amended.
Fees.Language stating that fees and/or charges are as established by the town council
               or other language of similar import means that such fees or charges shall be as the
               town council may establish or fix by resolution or ordinance. The fee or charge fixed
               by ordinance on the adoption date of this Code remains in effect until altered by
               resolution or ordinance.
Following.The term "following" means next after.
F.S.orstate acts.The abbreviation "F.S." and the term "state acts" refer to the latest edition of
               the Florida Statutes, as amended.
Gender.A word importing one gender only shall extend and be applied to the other genders
               and to firms, partnerships, and corporations as well.
Holiday.The term "holiday" includes any holiday that is recognized by the town, including,
               but not limited to, New Year's Day, Martin Luther King, Jr. Day, Presidents' Day,
               Memorial Day, Independence Day, Labor Day, Veterans Day, Thanksgiving Day and the
               following Friday, Christmas Eve and Christmas Day. Any such holiday that falls on
               a Saturday and Sunday shall be observed as designated by the town.
Immunities.All grants of immunity in this Code shall be construed as being in addition to, and
               not in lieu of, grants of immunity provided by state, federal or county law, ordinances,
               court or administrative decisions or rules.
May.The term "may" is to be construed as being permissive.
May not.The term "may not" has a prohibitory effect and states a prohibition.
Month.The term "month" means a calendar month.
Must.The term "must" is to be construed as being mandatory.
Number.Words importing the singular number only may be extended to be applied to several
               persons and things as well as to one person and thing.
Oath.The term "oath" includes an affirmation in all cases in which, by law, an affirmation
               may be substituted for an oath. In such cases, the terms "swear" and "sworn" are equivalent
               to the terms "affirm" and "affirmed."
Officers, boards, commissions.Whenever reference is made to officers, boards or commissions by title only, such
               as "planning commission," said references shall be read as though followed by the
               words "of Greenville, Florida."
Owner.The term "owner," applied to a building or land, includes any part owner, joint owner,
               tenant in common, tenant in partnership, joint tenant, or tenant by the entirety of
               the whole or of a part of such building or land.
Person.The term "person" means any human being, any governmental or political subdivision
               or public agency, any public or private corporation, any partnership, any firm, association
               or other organization, any receiver, trustee, assignee, agent, or other legal representative
               of any of the foregoing or any other legal entity.
Personal property.The term "personal property" includes every species of property except real property,
               as herein defined.
Preceding.The term "preceding" means next before.
Premises.The term "premises," as applied to real property, includes land and structures.
Property.The term "property" includes real property, personal property and mixed property.
Real property.The term "real property" includes lands, tenements and hereditaments.
Shall.The term "shall" is to be construed as being mandatory and not permissive.
Should.The term "should" is to be construed as being permissive and not mandatory.
Signatureorsubscription.The term "signature" or "subscription" includes a mark when the signer or subscriber
               cannot write.
State.The term "state" means the State of Florida.
Street.The term "street" includes any street, avenue, boulevard, road, alley, lane, viaduct
               and any other public highway in the town.
Tense.Words used in the past or present tense include the future as well as the past and
               present.
Town.The term "town" means the Town of Greenville, Madison County, Florida.
Town councilandcouncil.The terms "town council" and "council" mean the town council of Greenville, Florida.
Town officers, employees, boards, committees, commissions, etc.References to officers, employees, boards, committees, and commissions, are to town
               officers, town employees, town boards, town committees, and town commissions.
Week.The term "week" shall be construed to mean seven days.
Will.The term "will" is to be construed as being mandatory and not permissive.
Writtenorin writing.The term "written" or "in writing" includes any representation of words, letters
               or figures, whether by printing or otherwise.
Year.The term "year" means a calendar year.
--------------------------------------------------
Sec. 1-3. - Catchlines of sections; history notes; references.


The catchlines of the several sections of this Code printed in boldface type are intended
               as mere catchwords to indicate the contents of the section, and shall not be deemed
               or taken to be titles of such sections, nor as any part of the sections, nor, unless
               expressly so provided, shall they be so deemed when any of such sections, including
               the catchlines, are amended or re-enacted.
The history notes appearing in parentheses after sections of this Code are not intended
               to have any legal effect, but are merely intended to indicate the source of matter
               contained in the section.
References and editor's notes following certain sections are inserted as an aid and
               guide to the reader and are not controlling nor meant to have any legal effect.
--------------------------------------------------
Sec. 1-4. - Effect of repeal of ordinances.


The repeal of an ordinance shall not revive any repealed ordinance.
The repeal of an ordinance shall not affect any punishment or penalty incurred before
               the repeal took effect, nor any suit, prosecution or proceeding pending at the time
               of the repeal, for an offense committed under the ordinance repealed.
--------------------------------------------------
Sec. 1-5. - Amendments to Code; effect of new ordinances; amendatory language.


All ordinances passed subsequent to this Code that amend, repeal or in any way affect
               this Code may be numbered in accordance with the numbering system of this Code and
               printed for inclusion herein. When subsequent ordinances repeal any chapter, section
               or subsection or any portion of thereof, such repealed portions may be excluded from
               this Code by omission from reprinted pages. Subsequent ordinances as numbered and
               printed, shall be prima facie evidence of this content until such time as this Code
               is readopted to reflect same.
Amendments to provisions of this Code may be made by amending such provisions by specific
               reference to the section number (chapter, article, division or subdivision, as appropriate)
               with substantially the following language: "Be it ordained by the council of Greenville,
               Florida, in a regular and legally convened session, that section (chapter, article,
               division or subdivision, as appropriate) _____ of this Code of Ordinances, Town of
               Greenville, Florida, is hereby amended to read as follows: … ." The new provision
               may then be set out in full as desired.
If a new section, subdivision, division, article or chapter is to be added to this
               Code, the following language may be used: "Be it ordained by the council of Greenville,
               Florida, in a regular and legally convened session that this Code is hereby amended
               by adding section (chapter, article, division or subdivision, as appropriate) _____
               which shall read as follows: … ." The new provision may then be set out in full as
               desired.
--------------------------------------------------
Sec. 1-6. - Supplementation of Code.


By contract or by town personnel, supplements to this Code shall be prepared and printed
               whenever authorized or directed by the town council. A supplement to this Code shall
               include all substantive permanent and general parts of ordinances passed by the town
               council or adopted by initiative and referendum during the period covered by the supplement
               and all changes made thereby in this Code, and shall also include all amendments to
               the Charter during the period and any corrections made by the town attorney. The pages
               of a supplement shall be so numbered that they will fit properly into this Code and
               will, where necessary, replace pages which have become obsolete or partially obsolete,
               and the new pages shall be so prepared that, when they have been inserted, this Code
               will be current through the date of the adoption of the latest ordinance included
               in the supplement.
In preparing a supplement to this Code, all portions of this Code which have been
               repealed shall be excluded from this Code by the omission thereof from reprinted pages.
When preparing a supplement to this Code, the person authorized to prepare the supplement
               may make formal, nonsubstantive changes in ordinances and parts of ordinances included
               in the supplement, insofar as it is necessary to do so to embody them into a unified
               Code. For example, the codifier may:
Organize the ordinance material into appropriate organizational units.
Supply appropriate catchlines, headings and titles for chapters, articles, divisions,
               subdivisions and sections to be included in this Code and make changes in any such
               catchlines, headings and titles or in any such catchlines, headings and titles already
               in this Code.
Assign appropriate numbers to chapters, articles, divisions, subdivisions and sections
               to be added to this Code.
Where necessary to accommodate new material, change existing numbers assigned to chapters,
               articles, divisions, subdivisions or sections.
Change the words "this ordinance" or similar words to "this chapter," "this article,"
               "this division," "this subdivision," "this section" or "sections _____ to _____ "
               (inserting section numbers to indicate the sections of this Code that embody the substantive
               sections of the ordinance incorporated in this Code).
Make other nonsubstantive changes necessary to preserve the original meaning of the
               ordinances inserted into this Code, but in no case shall the codifier make any change
               in the meaning or effect of ordinance material included in the supplement or already
               embodied in this Code.
The publisher, editor or codifier shall omit all titles or ordinances; all enacting,
               resolving and repealing clauses, all appropriation measures; all temporary ordinances;
               all declarations of emergency; all validity, declaration of policy and construction
               clauses; except when the retention thereof is necessary to preserve the full meaning
               and intent of the law. Whenever any validity, declaration or policy or construction
               clause is omitted, proper notation of the omission may be made.
--------------------------------------------------
Sec. 1-7. - General penalty.


In this section, the term "violation of this Code" means any of the following:
Doing an act that is prohibited or made or declared unlawful, an offense, a violation,
               an infraction, a civil infraction or a misdemeanor by ordinance or by rule or regulation
               authorized by ordinance.
Failure to perform an act that is required to be performed by ordinance or by rule
               or regulation authorized by ordinance.
Failure to perform an act if the failure is prohibited or is made or declared unlawful,
               an offense, a violation, an infraction, a civil infraction or a misdemeanor by ordinance
               or by rule or regulation authorized by ordinance.
In this section, the term "violation of this Code" does not include the failure of
               a town officer or town employee to perform an official duty unless it is specifically
               provided that the failure to perform the duty is to be punished as provided in this
               section.
Except as otherwise provided by law or ordinance, a person convicted of a violation
               of this Code shall be punished:
Pursuant to F.S. § 162.22, as it may be amended from time to time, by a fine not to
               exceed that amount set forth by state law, imprisonment for a term not to exceed that
               set forth by state law, or any combination thereof.
Pursuant to F.S. § 162.21, as it may be amended from time to time, by a civil penalty
               not to exceed that amount set forth by state law.
Pursuant to F.S. § 162.09, as it may be amended from time to time, if enforcement
               is by the code enforcement board or a special magistrate, by a fine that shall not
               exceed those amounts set forth by state law for a first violation, for a repeat violation
               and per violation if the code enforcement board or special magistrate finds the violation
               to be irreparable or irreversible in nature. Such fines for each day the violation
               continues past the date set by the enforcement board or special magistrate for compliance
               or, in the case of a repeat violation, for each day the repeat violation continues,
               beginning with the date the repeat violation is found to have occurred by the code
               enforcement board or special magistrate.
Any combination of the above.
With respect to violations that are continuous with respect to time, each day the
               violation continues is a separate violation constituting a separate offense.
The imposition of a penalty under the provisions of this Code shall not prevent the
               revocation or suspension of any license, franchise or permit issued or granted under
               the provisions of this Code.
--------------------------------------------------
Sec. 1-8. - Severability of parts of Code.


It is hereby declared to be the intention of the town council that the sections, paragraphs,
               sentences, clauses and phrases of this Code are severable, and if any phrase, clause,
               sentence, paragraph or section of this Code shall be declared unconstitutional by
               the valid judgment or decree of a court of competent jurisdiction, such unconstitutionality
               shall not affect any of the remaining phrases, clauses, sentences, paragraphs and
               sections of this Code.
--------------------------------------------------
Sec. 1-9. - Certain ordinances not affected by Code.


Nothing in this Code or the ordinance adopting this Code affects the validity of any
               of the following ordinances or portions of an ordinance:
Proposing an amendment to the town Charter.
Published in the Charter or Related Laws accompanying this Code.
Annexing territory into the town, excluding territory from the town, or extending
               or describing the boundaries of the town.
Promising or guaranteeing the payment of money for the town, or authorizing the issue
               of any bonds or other instruments of indebtedness.
Making any appropriation or providing for a budget or budget amendment or budget transfer.
Any contract, right, agreement, lease, deed or other instrument or obligation assumed
               by the town.
Establishing positions, classifying positions, setting salaries or benefits of town
               officers or town employees not codified in this Code.
Granting any right or franchise.
Adopting or amending the comprehensive plan not codified in this Code.
Dedicating, naming, establishing, locating, relocating, opening, paving, widening,
               repairing or vacating, any street, right-of-way, or public lands.
Establishing and prescribing the street grades of any street in the town.
Levying or imposing any special assessment.
Dedicating, accepting or vacating any plat or subdivision.
Levying or imposing taxes not codified in this Code.
Pertaining to zoning, including, but not limited to, the basic zoning ordinance and
               amendments thereto and ordinances rezoning specific property or amending the zoning
               map.
That is temporary, although general in effect.
That is special, although permanent in effect.
The purpose of which has been accomplished.
Any offense or act committed done or any penalty or forfeiture incurred or any contract
               or right established or accruing before the effective date of this Code shall not
               be affected by the adoption of this Code.
All such ordinances are hereby recognized as continuing in full force and effect to
               the same extent as if set out at length herein and are on file in the town clerk's
               office.
--------------------------------------------------



Chapter 2 - ADMINISTRATION


--------------------------------------------------
ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL


--------------------------------------------------
Sec. 2-1. - Administration of certain governmental functions.


The town permits the county and the sheriff, and other state and local agencies, to
               perform certain administrative functions, as agreed from time to time.
--------------------------------------------------
Sec. 2-2. - Fiscal year.


The fiscal year of the town begins on October 1 and ends on September 30 of the following
               year.
(Ord. No. 150, § 1, 10-16-1973)
--------------------------------------------------
Sec. 2-3. - Financial recordkeeping.


The financial records of the town shall be kept in accordance with generally accepted
               accounting procedures.
(Ord. No. 150, § 2, 10-16-1973)
--------------------------------------------------
Sec. 2-4. - Annual audit.


The town, prior to the close of each fiscal year, shall obtain the services of a certified
               public accountant for the purpose of having the financial records of the town audited
               in accordance with generally accepted auditing procedures.
(Ord. No. 150, § 3, 10-16-1973)
--------------------------------------------------
Sec. 2-5. - Local planning agency.


The town council, pursuant to and in accordance with the applicable provisions of
               the Local Government Comprehensive Planning Act of 1975, as amended, is hereby designated
               and established as the local planning agency for the incorporated territory of the
               town.
The town clerk shall, in accordance with the aforesaid act, officially inform the
               state land planning agency and the appropriate regional planning agency of this designation.
(Ord. No. 156, §§ 1, 2, 8-2-1977)
--------------------------------------------------
Sec. 2-6. - Criminal Justice Education Fund.


There shall be assessed an additional $2.00 as court costs against every person convicted
               of violating any state penal or criminal statute within town limits or convicted of
               violating any town ordinance, said $2.00 to be used for criminal justice education
               degree programs and training courses, including basic recruit training, for the town's
               police officers and support personnel. However, no such assessment shall be made against
               any person convicted for violation of any state statute, or town ordinance relating
               to the parking of vehicles.
(Ord. No. 195, § 1; x-x-1993)
--------------------------------------------------
Secs. 2-7—2-20. - Reserved.


--------------------------------------------------
ARTICLE II. - LEGISLATIVE BODY


--------------------------------------------------
Sec. 2-21. - Compensation of town council.


Pursuant tosection 7of the town Charter, the compensation of the town council is hereby changed.
Beginning in December 2021, each member of the town council shall receive as compensation
               for serving as member of the town council an amount of $350.00 per month.
(Ord. No.2021-268, § 1, 10-25-2021)
--------------------------------------------------
Secs. 2-22—2-43. - Reserved.


--------------------------------------------------
ARTICLE III. - OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES


--------------------------------------------------
Sec. 2-44. - Town manager.


Appointment; removal; compensation.
The town council shall appoint the town manager by the affirmative vote of the town
               council.
The town manager may be removed by the affirmative vote of the town council upon reasonable
               notice at a publicly noticed meeting. The action of the town council shall be final.
The compensation of the town manager shall be fixed by the town council.
Operational job title.
The town manager shall operate under the official title of chief executive officer/chief
               financial officer, or CEO/CFO.
Job duties of town manager.
The town manager shall be the chief administrative officer of the town. The manager
               shall be responsible to the council for the administration of town affairs.
The job duties and responsibilities of the town manager, operating as the chief executive
               officer/chief financial officer, shall be further defined by policy adopted by the
               town council and incorporated by reference.
(Ord. No.2021-264, § 1, 3-8-2021)
--------------------------------------------------
Secs. 2-45—2-74. - Reserved.


--------------------------------------------------
ARTICLE IV. - CODE ENFORCEMENT


--------------------------------------------------
Sec. 2-75. - Definitions.


The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the
               meanings ascribed to them in this subsection, except where the context clearly indicates
               a different meaning:
Codemeans all codes promulgated by the town council of the Town of Greenville, Florida.
Code enforcement divisionmeans the division within the town government that is responsible for the enforcement
               of the codes and ordinances of incorporated town and may be referred to as "the division."
Code enforcement officermeans any authorized employee of the town whose duty it is to investigate alleged
               violations of town codes and ordinances, and may be referred to as "code enforcement
               investigator" or "code inspector."
Initial pleadingmeans a notice of violation issued by a code enforcement investigator which serves
               as the basis for the enforcement action and explains to the alleged violator the nature
               of the violation, provides a reasonable amount of time for compliance and cites to
               the provision of the codes and/or ordinances that have been violated.
Notice of appealmeans a written document explaining that a party desires to appeal a special magistrate's
               written decision and detailing the reasons for such appeal.
Ordinancemeans any ordinance, regulation, resolution or other form of legislation promulgated
               by the town council of the town. May be used interchangeably with "code."
Repeat violationmeans a subsequent violation, which may occur at a different location within the
               incorporated town, of a town ordinance or code by a person who was previously found
               to have violated the same provision of the code or ordinance. The subsequent violation
               must occur within five years of the date an order finding a violation was ratified
               by the code enforcement special magistrate or an order was entered by a code enforcement
               special magistrate pursuant to this article.
Violatormeans any person who causes or allows a violation of a town ordinance or code to
               exist on property in which they have either an ownership or possessory interest. May
               include, but not be limited to, an occupant, tenant, lessee or owner.
(Ord. No. 2019-250, § 2, 7-8-2019)
--------------------------------------------------
Sec. 2-76. - Code enforcement special magistrate system.


Creation of alternate code enforcement system.There is hereby created, pursuant to F.S. § 162.03(2), an alternate code enforcement
               system. This alternate code enforcement system shall have the same status as a code
               enforcement board. Nothing in this section is intended to preclude the town from enforcing
               any ordinance or code through a court of competent jurisdiction.
Creation and purpose of special magistrates and alternate special magistrates.There is hereby created a code enforcement system which utilizes special magistrates,
               each of whom is to be appointed by the town council. Special magistrates shall have
               the authority to conduct hearings to determine whether a violation of any code or
               an ordinance of the town within the special magistrate jurisdiction has occurred and
               upon finding that a violation has occurred, impose fines, costs and liens against
               the violators. In addition, the town council may appoint alternate special magistrates
               to hear cases in which a special magistrate has a conflict or is unavailable for scheduled
               code enforcement hearings or an emergency code enforcement hearing.
Qualifications of a special magistrate.All magistrates shall be attorneys who are in good standing with the Florida Bar.
               Those attorneys should possess an outstanding reputation for business and professional
               ability, civic pride and community development. The clerical staff of the code enforcement
               system shall process all applications for appointment.
Term of service; removal.All special magistrates and alternate special magistrates shall be appointed for
               a term of two years and may be reappointed by the town council. Despite the term for
               which they were appointed, all magistrates serve at the pleasure of the town council
               and are not employees of the town. If any magistrate fails to attend two of three
               successive hearings without good cause, the position shall be considered vacant, and
               the town council shall promptly fill the remainder of the unexpired term. In addition,
               the town council may contract with an entity or agency including, without limitation,
               a law office or law firm to provide a special magistrate or alternate special magistrate
               who meets the qualifications of this division.
Clerical and administrative support staff.The town council shall provide clerical and administrative support to the magistrates
               as may be reasonably required for the proper performance of their duties.
(Ord. No. 2019-250, § 2, 7-8-2019)
--------------------------------------------------
Sec. 2-77. - Jurisdiction of code enforcement special magistrates.


General jurisdiction.Code enforcement special magistrates shall have the jurisdiction to hear any alleged
               violation of any code or ordinance of the town that does not provide for an exclusive
               method of enforcement through other means. Code enforcement special magistrates shall
               have jurisdiction over alleged violations involving all real property except that
               which is a homestead under section 4, article X, of the Florida Constitution, at the
               time of the alleged violation.
Orders existing prior to the creation of the code enforcement special magistrate system.All orders or decisions of any authorized entity within the town prior to the effective
               date of the ordinance from which this article is derived remain in full force and
               effect. Special magistrates shall have the authority to affirm, ratify, or amend any
               order, including orders imposing fines as liens, or decision rendered or imposed by
               any authorized entity within the town prior to the effective date of the ordinance
               from which this article is derived.
(Ord. No. 2019-250, § 2, 7-8-2019)
--------------------------------------------------
Sec. 2-78. - Powers of code enforcement special magistrates.


The code enforcement powers of the special magistrates shall be to:
Oversee the adoption of rules for the conduct of hearings. The creation of rules for
                  special magistrate hearings will be done in conjunction with the town attorney and
                  shall be approved by the town council.
Subpoena alleged violators and witnesses to hearings. Subpoenas may be served by the
                  sheriff of the county.
Subpoena evidence to hearings.
Take testimony under oath.
Issue orders. Special magistrates may issue orders having the force of law to command
                  whatever steps are necessary to bring a violation into compliance.
Establish and levy fines and costs in accordance with this article.
(Ord. No. 2019-250, § 2, 7-8-2019)
--------------------------------------------------
Sec. 2-79. - Case presentation before code enforcement special magistrates.


The town attorney or his designee shall be the legal representative for the town and
               shall be permitted to present cases to the special magistrate, to inquire of any witness,
               submit evidence, make legal arguments on behalf of the town and exercise any and all
               other powers necessary to prosecute violations within the jurisdiction of the special
               magistrate.
(Ord. No. 2019-250, § 2, 7-8-2019)
--------------------------------------------------
Sec. 2-80. - Enforcement procedure of code enforcement special magistrates.


Initiation of proceedings.It shall be the duty of the code enforcement officer to initiate enforcement proceedings
               of the various codes. No magistrate shall have the power to initiate such proceedings.
Notification of violations.Except as provided in subsections (c) and (d) of this section, if a violation of
               a code or ordinance is found, the code enforcement officer shall notify the violator
               and provide a reasonable time to correct the violation. If the violation is corrected
               and then recurs on any property owned by the alleged violator or if the violation
               is not corrected by the time specified for correction by the code enforcement officer,
               the case shall be presented to the code enforcement special magistrate even if the
               violation has been corrected prior to the hearing. Written notice of the violation
               and hearing shall be given in accordance with this article. If the violation is corrected
               and then recurs within five years on any property owned by the alleged violator after
               the hearing date, the case shall be presented to the special magistrate, upon notifying
               the alleged violator of the recurrence of the violation and hearing date, without
               any additional time to correct the violation.
Repeat violations.If a repeat violation is found, the code enforcement officer shall notify the violator
               but is not required to give the violator a reasonable time to correct the violation.
               The code enforcement officer, upon notifying the violator of a repeat violation, shall
               notify the clerical staff of the special magistrate and request a hearing. The clerical
               staff shall schedule a hearing. Written notice of such hearing shall be given in accordance
               with this article. The case may be presented to the magistrate even if the repeat
               violation has been corrected prior to the hearing, and the notice shall so state.
               If the repeat violation has been corrected, the code enforcement special magistrate
               retains the right to schedule a hearing to determine costs and impose the payment
               of reasonable enforcement fees upon the repeat violator. The repeat violator may choose
               to waive his or her rights to this hearing and pay said costs as determined by the
               magistrate.
Serious or irreparable violations.If the code enforcement officer has reason to believe a violation or the condition
               causing the violation is irreparable or irreversible in nature, the code enforcement
               officer shall make a reasonable effort to notify the violator and may immediately
               notify the special magistrate and request a hearing.
Transfer of ownership.If the owner of the property that is subject to an enforcement proceeding before
               a special magistrate or court transfers ownership of such property between the time
               the initial pleading was served and the time of the hearing, such owner shall:
Disclose, in writing, the existence and the nature of the proceeding to the prospective
               transferee.
Deliver to the prospective transferee a copy of all pleadings, notices, and other
               materials received by the owner/transferor in connection with the code enforcement
               proceeding.
Disclose, in writing, to the prospective transferee that the new owner will be responsible
               for compliance with the applicable code and with orders issued in the code enforcement
               proceeding.
File a notice with the code enforcement special magistrate informing the magistrate
               of the transfer of the subject property, with the identity and address of the new
               owner and copies of the disclosures made to the new owner, within five days after
               the date of the transfer.
(Ord. No. 2019-250, § 2, 7-8-2019)
--------------------------------------------------
Sec. 2-81. - Notice of hearing.


Contents of notice.Written notice of the initial pleading and notices of the initial hearing shall contain
               the date, time and location of the hearing and shall generally set forth the nature
               of the alleged violation with reference to the relevant code or ordinance. Notice
               shall be provided to the alleged violator by certified mail, hand delivery, posting
               or publication. The method of providing notice shall be the option of the code enforcement
               division.
Attempts of notice.Evidence that an attempt has been made to hand deliver or mail the notice, as provided
               for in this section, together with proof of publication or posting, shall be sufficient
               to show that the notice requirements of this section have been met, without regard
               to whether the alleged violator actually received such notice.
Notice by mail or hand delivery.Notice of the initial pleading and of the initial hearing may be sent by mail or
               hand delivered as follows:
The notice may be sent by certified mail, return receipt requested, provided such
               notice is sent to the owner of the property in question at the address listed in the
               county tax collector's office for tax notices, or at any other address provided to
               the magistrates' clerical staff by such owner. If the notice is unclaimed or refused,
               notice may be provided by posting and by first class mail directed to the addresses
               furnished with a properly executed certificate of service confirming the first-class
               mailing.
The notice may be hand delivered by the sheriff or other law enforcement officer with
               jurisdiction, code enforcement officer, or other person designated by the local governing
               body.
Notice by publication or posting.Notice of the initial pleading and of the initial hearing given by posting or publication
               must proceed as follows:
Publication.The hearing notice shall be published once during each week for four consecutive
               weeks in a newspaper of general circulation in the town. The newspaper shall meet
               the requirements for legal and official advertisements as prescribed under F.S. ch.
               50. Proof of publication shall be made as provided for in F.S. §§ 50.041 and 50.051.
Posting.In lieu of publication, the notice shall be posted for at least ten days prior to
               the hearing, or prior to the deadline set forth in the notice. The notice must be
               posted in at least two locations, one of which shall be the property upon which the
               violation is said to exist and the other shall be the front door of the town hall.
               Proof of posting shall be by affidavit of the person posting the notice. The affidavit
               shall include a copy of the posted notice and shall contain the date and places of
               its posting.
Order of notice.Notice by publication or posting may run concurrently with or may follow an attempt
               or attempts to provide notice by hand delivery or mail as required under subsection
               (c) of this section.
Notice subsequent to initial hearing and initial pleading.Notice of all hearings subsequent to the initial hearing and all subsequent pleadings
               shall be given by first-class mail to the alleged violator's address of record, which
               must either be the address obtained from the tax collector's office, property appraiser's
               office, or any address provided to the clerical staff by the violator. If the property
               is sold subsequent to a lien attaching and the matter is brought before a magistrate
               for any reason, the violator and the new owner shall be entitled to written notice,
               given by first class mail, of any additional proceedings before a magistrate.
(Ord. No. 2019-250, § 2, 7-8-2019)
--------------------------------------------------
Sec. 2-82. - Conduct of special magistrate hearings.


Frequency of hearings.The special magistrate shall hold code enforcement hearings as necessary. Any hearing
               of a special magistrate may be called at the request of the special magistrate or
               the town manager.
Notice.Upon scheduling of a hearing before the special magistrate, the town shall cause
               written notice to be delivered to the alleged violator as prescribed in this article.
Burden of proof.At the initial hearing, the burden of proof shall be upon the town to show by a preponderance
               of the evidence that a violation exists. At hearings subsequent to the initial hearing,
               the burden of proof shall be upon the moving party and all allegations should be proven
               by a preponderance of the evidence.
Hearings in the absence of the violator.Provided that proper notice of a hearing has been served upon the alleged violator,
               a hearing may proceed in the absence of the alleged violator.
Representation of violator.The alleged violator may be represented by counsel or any other person at any hearing.
Representation by an attorney.If the violator is represented by counsel authorized to practice law in the state,
               then that attorney shall file a notice of appearance with the town clerk.
Representation by an individual who is not an attorney.If the violator is represented at any hearing by someone other than a Florida-licensed
               attorney, then the alleged violator must prepare a notarized statement that authorizes
               such person to speak as a representative, file the statement with the town clerk.
               If the statement is not received by the town clerk prior to the hearing, the hearing
               will continue as if the violator is not present or represented. By providing a notarized
               statement, the violator understands and agrees that the representative shall have
               the authority to agree that a violation exists, to agree to the imposition of a fine
               or lien upon the violator's property, and to bind the violator to remedy a violation.
               If an alleged violator provides written authorization for a representative, the violator
               cannot later assert or complain that the representative acted without authority, nor
               can the violator contest the representative's actions.
Presentation to a magistrate.The parties shall be permitted to present brief opening and closing statements. All
               testimony shall be under oath and shall be recorded. The magistrate shall take testimony
               from the code enforcement officer, the alleged violator and any other witnesses either
               party may call. The parties, the authorized representatives of the parties, the magistrate,
               and the town attorney or his designee, may be permitted to inquire of any witnesses.
Submission of evidence.The parties may submit evidence to the magistrate. Formal rules of evidence shall
               not apply; however, fundamental due process shall be observed and shall govern all
               proceedings. Irrelevant, immaterial, or unduly repetitious evidence shall be excluded,
               but all other evidence of a type commonly relied upon by reasonably prudent persons
               in the conduct of their affairs shall be admissible, whether or not such evidence
               would be admissible in a trial in the courts of the state.
Magistrate's determination.At the conclusion of the hearing, the special magistrate shall issue findings of
               fact, based on evidence of record and conclusions of law, and shall issue an order
               based upon such findings. The order may include a specified date by which the violator
               must comply and that a fine may be imposed. Notwithstanding that a fine or lien has
               been imposed, the town may seek additional relief against a violator who has failed
               to comply with a magistrate's order. A magistrate may issue any order giving relief
               that would bring about compliance, which may include the town's authorization to remedy
               the violations on the violator's behalf regardless of whether the violation creates
               a public nuisance.
Magistrate's order.The costs of remedying violations on a violator's behalf shall be included along
               with the fine if the violator fails to correct the violations as ordered. The order
               must include a statement that any person aggrieved by the order who was a party below
               may appeal in accordance with this ordinance. A certified copy of such order may be
               recorded in the public records of the county and shall constitute notice to any subsequent
               purchasers, successors, and assigns if the violation concerns real property. The findings
               therein shall be binding upon the violator and, if the violation concerns real property,
               any subsequent purchasers, successors and assigns. If an order is recorded in the
               public records pursuant to this section and the order is complied with by the date
               specified in the order, the special magistrate shall issue an order acknowledging
               compliance that shall be recorded in the public records. A hearing is not required
               to issue such an order acknowledging compliance.
Costs of prosecution.If the town prevails in prosecuting a case before a special magistrate, the town
               shall be entitled to recover all costs incurred in prosecuting the case, including
               without limitation, all vendor, administrative, and operating costs, and such costs
               shall be included in the lien authorized under this division.
In those instances where the violation is not corrected by the time specified for
               correction by the code enforcement officer, the town shall be entitled to recover
               all costs incurred in prosecuting the case, including without limitation, all vendor,
               administrative, and operating costs, and such costs shall be included in the lien
               authorized under this article.
In those instances where the violation is corrected and them recurs within five years
               on any property owned or occupied by the alleged violator, the town shall be entitled
               to recover all costs reasonably and necessarily incurred by the town for the original
               violation and recurrence of the violation, including without limitation, all vendor,
               administrative, and operating costs, and such costs shall be imposed against the violator
               at a hearing in which notice has been sent to the violator even if the violation is
               corrected prior to the hearing and such costs shall be included in the lien authorized
               under this article.
Violation of a special magistrate's cease and desist order.It shall be a violation of this article, punishable in accordance with F.S. § 125.69,
               as it may be amended from time to time, for any person to violate a cease and desist
               order issued by a special magistrate or appellate special magistrate. Any person who
               has been sent such order by regular mail, has been given a copy of such order by hand
               delivery from a code inspector, law enforcement officer, or certified process server,
               or is on property posted with a copy of the order shall be deemed to have knowledge
               of such order and subject to prosecution of violation of this division in accordance
               with F.S. § 125.69, as it may be amended from time to time. A violation of this article
               shall be considered a violation of town ordinance and shall be prosecuted in the same
               manner as misdemeanors are prosecuted in accordance with F.S. § 125.69, as it may
               be amended from time to time.
(Ord. No. 2019-250, § 2, 7-8-2019)
--------------------------------------------------
Sec. 2-83. - Appeals to the circuit court.


An aggrieved party, including the town, may appeal a final administrative order of
               the code enforcement special magistrate to the circuit court for the Third Judicial
               Circuit with venue in Madison County. An appeal shall be filed within 30 days of the
               execution of the written order to be appealed and shall be subject to the Florida
               Rules of Appellate Procedure, as they may be amended from time to time.
(Ord. No. 2019-250, § 2, 7-8-2091)
--------------------------------------------------
Sec. 2-84. - Administrative fines, costs of repairs, costs to the town, and liens.


Authorization of administrative fines and costs of repairs.A magistrate, upon notification by the code enforcement officer that an order of
               the special magistrate has not been complied with by the set time or upon finding
               that a repeat violation has been committed, may order the violator to pay a fine in
               an amount specified in this section for each day the violation continues past the
               date set by the code enforcement special magistrate for compliance, or in the case
               of a repeat violation, for each day the repeat violation continues, beginning with
               the date the repeat violation is found to have occurred by the code inspector. In
               addition, if the violation is not remedied by the violator as ordered and the town
               is authorized to remedy such violation, the magistrate may charge the violator with
               the reasonable costs of the repairs along with the fine imposed pursuant to this section.
               Making such repairs does not create a continuing obligation on the part of the town
               to make further repairs or to maintain the property and does not create any liability
               against the town for any damages to the property if such repairs were completed in
               good faith. If a finding of a violation or repeat violation has been made according
               to this article, a hearing shall not be necessary for issuance of the order imposing
               the fine. If, after due notice and hearing, a magistrate finds a violation to be irreparable
               or irreversible in nature, it may order the violator to pay a fine as specified in
               subsection (b) of this section.
Amount of fine.The special magistrate is hereby authorized to impose a fine for a first violation,
               for a repeat violation and if the special magistrate finds a violation to be irreparable
               or irreversible in nature in the amounts set forth in F.S. § 162.09(2)(a), as it may
               be amended from time to time. In addition to such fines, the special magistrate shall
               impose additional fines to cover all costs incurred by town in enforcing its codes
               and all costs or repairs made pursuant to an order issued by the special magistrate.
               In determining the amount of the fines for violations, the special magistrate shall
               consider:
The gravity of the violation;
Any actions taken by the violator; and
Any previous violations committed by the violator.
Creation of lien.A certified copy of an order imposing a fine or imposing a fine with costs of repairs
               may be recorded in the public records and thereafter shall constitute a lien against
               the land on which the violation exists and upon any other real or personal property
               owned by the violator. The order imposing a fine may include costs of repairs made
               on the violator's behalf by the town and any costs incurred by the town in relation
               to the investigation and prosecution of said violation. Upon petition to the circuit
               court of the Third Judicial Circuit, in and for Madison County, such order shall be
               enforceable in the same manner as a court judgment by the sheriffs of this state,
               including execution and levy against the personal property of the violator, but such
               order shall not be deemed to be a court judgment except for enforcement purposes.
               A fine imposed pursuant to this section shall continue to accrue until the violator
               comes into compliance or until judgment is rendered in a suit filed pursuant to this
               section, whichever occurs first. A lien arising from a fine imposed pursuant to this
               section runs in favor of the town and a magistrate may execute a satisfaction or release
               of lien entered pursuant to this section. After three months from the filing of any
               such lien which remains unpaid, the town council may authorize the town attorney to
               foreclose on the lien or to sue to recover a money judgment for the amount of the
               lien plus accrued interest.
Duration of lien.No lien imposed pursuant to this article shall continue for a period longer than
               20 years after the certified copy of an order imposing a fine has been recorded, unless
               within that time an action to foreclose is commenced in a court of competent jurisdiction.
               In an action to foreclose on a lien or for a money judgment, the prevailing party
               is entitled to recover all costs, including a reasonable attorney's fee, that it incurs
               as a result of this action. The town shall be entitled to collect all costs incurred
               in recording and satisfying a valid lien. The continuation of the lien affected by
               the commencement of this action shall not be good creditors or subsequent purchasers
               for valuable consideration without notice, unless a notice of lis pendens is recorded.
(Ord. No. 2019-250, § 2, 7-8-2019)
--------------------------------------------------
Sec. 2-85. - Payment of fines in separate account.


The town council shall cause all administrative fines assessed and the proceeds resulting
               from the imposition of all liens levied pursuant to this article to be paid into a
               separate revenue account, which is hereby created. Said account shall be known as
               the "Code Enforcement Fines Account."
(Ord. No. 2019-250, § 2, 7-8-2019)
--------------------------------------------------
Sec. 2-86. - Ratification of code enforcement special magistrate orders prior to effective date.


All orders of the code enforcement board, special magistrate, or any authorized entity
               within the town to enforce the town's Code of Ordinances prior to effective date including
               the imposition of any liens on personal and real property resulting from Code violations,
               are hereby ratified and confirmed. The code enforcement special magistrates are hereby
               granted all rights, powers and authority to enforce and amend such orders and liens,
               as previously held by the code enforcement board, special magistrate, or any authorized
               entity within the town prior to effective date.
(Ord. No. 2019-250, § 2, 7-8-2019)
--------------------------------------------------
ARTICLE V. - ELECTIONS


--------------------------------------------------
Sec. 2-87. - Applicability of state election laws.


All municipal primary elections, general elections, and special elections of the town
               shall be held and conducted according to the election laws of the state except as
               amended by this article or unless such statutes are made inapplicable by reason of
               such changes.
(Ord. No.2020-257, § 2, 8-17-2020)
--------------------------------------------------
Sec. 2-88. - Retention of election files.


At the conclusion of each election, the town clerk shall retain all election files
               as provided by law.
(Ord. No.2020-257, § 3, 8-17-2020)
--------------------------------------------------
Sec. 2-89. - Supervising agency and use of county supervisor of elections.


The town council shall make all necessary arrangements for holding municipal primary
               elections, regular municipal general elections, and special municipal elections and
               shall declare the results thereof. The town council may instruct the town clerk to
               conduct such elections or may authorize the town clerk to contract with the supervisor
               of elections of the county to conduct such elections.
(Ord. No.2020-257, § 4, 8-17-2020)
--------------------------------------------------
Sec. 2-90. - Election date.


The regular election of the town council shall be held on the first Tuesday after
               the first Monday in November of each election year. Beginning after the 2020 election,
               the municipal primary election for the nomination of town council, if necessary, shall
               be held on the same date as the state's primary election.
(Ord. No.2020-257, § 5, 8-17-2020)
--------------------------------------------------
Sec. 2-91. - Candidates for nomination to office of councilmember of the town council; eligibility, petition or filing fee requirement, oath.


Any person who has been a resident of the town for a period of six [months] and is
               a qualified elector therein may become a candidate for nomination to the office of
               councilmember of the town council by taking and subscribing to an oath or affirmation
               in substantially the following form and filing the same as provided by state law:
Each candidate, including an incumbent, shall, prior to the end of the qualifying
               period, file with the eligibility oath a petition, on forms to be provided by the
               supervisor of elections, containing the requisite signatures of registered voters
               as provided by state law or pay an election assessment to the town clerk in the amount
               of one percent of the annual salary of the office sought. If the candidate does not
               seek to raise or expend campaign funds and certifies as such in writing and under
               oath to the town clerk, the qualifying fee may be made via cashier's check or money
               order. The town clerk, or his or her designee, shall verify the signatures on the
               petition according to law. The town clerk shall be paid in advance the sum of ten
               cents for each signature checked or the actual cost of checking such signature, whichever
               is less, by the candidate. However, if a candidate, cannot pay the election assessment
               of the charges to verify signatures without imposing an undue burden on personal resources
               or upon the resources otherwise available to such candidate, such candidate shall,
               upon written certification of such inability given under oath to the town clerk, be
               entitled to have the election assessment waived or have the signatures verified at
               the expense of the town. Reimbursement to the town from surplus campaign account funds
               shall be made according to law. If the required number of signatures has been obtained,
               and if the petition is presented within the time allowed for qualifying as a candidate,
               the candidate shall have his or her name placed on the ballot.
(Ord. No.2020-257, § 6, 8-17-2020)
--------------------------------------------------
Sec. 2-92. - Primary election and unopposed candidates.


If more than two persons qualify as candidates as provided for insection 2-91for any of the offices to be filled, then a municipal primary election shall be held.
               The candidate who receives a majority of votes in such municipal primary election
               in a respective group shall be elected to such vacancy. If no candidate receives a
               majority vote in such primary election in a respective group, then the two candidates
               who receive the greatest vote in such primary election in their respective group shall
               be on the following regular municipal election for such vacancy.
If two persons qualify as candidates as provided for insection 2-91for any of the offices to be filled, then a municipal primary election shall not
               be held, and the candidates shall be placed upon the municipal general election.
The name of an unopposed candidate for town council shall not appear on the general
               election ballot and such nominee shall be deemed to have voted for himself/herself
               at the general election and shall be declared to be the winner. The town clerk shall,
               at the reorganization meeting, furnish a certificate of election to each person shown
               to have been elected.
In the event of the death, withdrawal, or removal of all of the qualified candidates,
               or all of the qualified candidates except for one candidate, qualification for the
               vacancy shall be reopened. The supplemental qualification period shall commence at
               noon on the day following the day that the vacancy in candidacy occurs under the terms
               of this section, and such period shall continue until noon on the fourth business
               day following the opening of such period. A candidate who was a qualified candidate
               at the beginning of the supplemental qualified period shall not be required to requalify
               during such period.
(Ord. No.2020-257, § 7, 8-17-2020)
--------------------------------------------------
Sec. 2-93. - Canvassing board and certificate of election.


The county canvassing board shall canvass the returns for all municipal elections
               which are held concurrent with state or federal elections and shall present to the
               town clerk a certified copy of the results.
The charter officers shall be the canvassing board for municipal elections which are
               not held concurrent with state or federal elections and shall meet on the day of the
               election to canvass the returns and the results as shown by the returns shall be by
               the canvassing board declared as the result of the election. The town clerk shall
               furnish a certificate of election at the time of the town council reorganization meeting
               to each person shown to have been elected.
(Ord. No.2020-257, § 8, 8-17-2020)
--------------------------------------------------



Chapter 2 - ADMINISTRATION


--------------------------------------------------
ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL


--------------------------------------------------
Sec. 2-1. - Administration of certain governmental functions.


The town permits the county and the sheriff, and other state and local agencies, to
               perform certain administrative functions, as agreed from time to time.
--------------------------------------------------
Sec. 2-2. - Fiscal year.


The fiscal year of the town begins on October 1 and ends on September 30 of the following
               year.
(Ord. No. 150, § 1, 10-16-1973)
--------------------------------------------------
Sec. 2-3. - Financial recordkeeping.


The financial records of the town shall be kept in accordance with generally accepted
               accounting procedures.
(Ord. No. 150, § 2, 10-16-1973)
--------------------------------------------------
Sec. 2-4. - Annual audit.


The town, prior to the close of each fiscal year, shall obtain the services of a certified
               public accountant for the purpose of having the financial records of the town audited
               in accordance with generally accepted auditing procedures.
(Ord. No. 150, § 3, 10-16-1973)
--------------------------------------------------
Sec. 2-5. - Local planning agency.


The town council, pursuant to and in accordance with the applicable provisions of
               the Local Government Comprehensive Planning Act of 1975, as amended, is hereby designated
               and established as the local planning agency for the incorporated territory of the
               town.
The town clerk shall, in accordance with the aforesaid act, officially inform the
               state land planning agency and the appropriate regional planning agency of this designation.
(Ord. No. 156, §§ 1, 2, 8-2-1977)
--------------------------------------------------
Sec. 2-6. - Criminal Justice Education Fund.


There shall be assessed an additional $2.00 as court costs against every person convicted
               of violating any state penal or criminal statute within town limits or convicted of
               violating any town ordinance, said $2.00 to be used for criminal justice education
               degree programs and training courses, including basic recruit training, for the town's
               police officers and support personnel. However, no such assessment shall be made against
               any person convicted for violation of any state statute, or town ordinance relating
               to the parking of vehicles.
(Ord. No. 195, § 1; x-x-1993)
--------------------------------------------------
Secs. 2-7—2-20. - Reserved.


--------------------------------------------------
ARTICLE II. - LEGISLATIVE BODY


--------------------------------------------------
Sec. 2-21. - Compensation of town council.


Pursuant tosection 7of the town Charter, the compensation of the town council is hereby changed.
Beginning in December 2021, each member of the town council shall receive as compensation
               for serving as member of the town council an amount of $350.00 per month.
(Ord. No.2021-268, § 1, 10-25-2021)
--------------------------------------------------
Secs. 2-22—2-43. - Reserved.


--------------------------------------------------
ARTICLE III. - OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES


--------------------------------------------------
Sec. 2-44. - Town manager.


Appointment; removal; compensation.
The town council shall appoint the town manager by the affirmative vote of the town
               council.
The town manager may be removed by the affirmative vote of the town council upon reasonable
               notice at a publicly noticed meeting. The action of the town council shall be final.
The compensation of the town manager shall be fixed by the town council.
Operational job title.
The town manager shall operate under the official title of chief executive officer/chief
               financial officer, or CEO/CFO.
Job duties of town manager.
The town manager shall be the chief administrative officer of the town. The manager
               shall be responsible to the council for the administration of town affairs.
The job duties and responsibilities of the town manager, operating as the chief executive
               officer/chief financial officer, shall be further defined by policy adopted by the
               town council and incorporated by reference.
(Ord. No.2021-264, § 1, 3-8-2021)
--------------------------------------------------
Secs. 2-45—2-74. - Reserved.


--------------------------------------------------
ARTICLE IV. - CODE ENFORCEMENT


--------------------------------------------------
Sec. 2-75. - Definitions.


The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the
               meanings ascribed to them in this subsection, except where the context clearly indicates
               a different meaning:
Codemeans all codes promulgated by the town council of the Town of Greenville, Florida.
Code enforcement divisionmeans the division within the town government that is responsible for the enforcement
               of the codes and ordinances of incorporated town and may be referred to as "the division."
Code enforcement officermeans any authorized employee of the town whose duty it is to investigate alleged
               violations of town codes and ordinances, and may be referred to as "code enforcement
               investigator" or "code inspector."
Initial pleadingmeans a notice of violation issued by a code enforcement investigator which serves
               as the basis for the enforcement action and explains to the alleged violator the nature
               of the violation, provides a reasonable amount of time for compliance and cites to
               the provision of the codes and/or ordinances that have been violated.
Notice of appealmeans a written document explaining that a party desires to appeal a special magistrate's
               written decision and detailing the reasons for such appeal.
Ordinancemeans any ordinance, regulation, resolution or other form of legislation promulgated
               by the town council of the town. May be used interchangeably with "code."
Repeat violationmeans a subsequent violation, which may occur at a different location within the
               incorporated town, of a town ordinance or code by a person who was previously found
               to have violated the same provision of the code or ordinance. The subsequent violation
               must occur within five years of the date an order finding a violation was ratified
               by the code enforcement special magistrate or an order was entered by a code enforcement
               special magistrate pursuant to this article.
Violatormeans any person who causes or allows a violation of a town ordinance or code to
               exist on property in which they have either an ownership or possessory interest. May
               include, but not be limited to, an occupant, tenant, lessee or owner.
(Ord. No. 2019-250, § 2, 7-8-2019)
--------------------------------------------------
Sec. 2-76. - Code enforcement special magistrate system.


Creation of alternate code enforcement system.There is hereby created, pursuant to F.S. § 162.03(2), an alternate code enforcement
               system. This alternate code enforcement system shall have the same status as a code
               enforcement board. Nothing in this section is intended to preclude the town from enforcing
               any ordinance or code through a court of competent jurisdiction.
Creation and purpose of special magistrates and alternate special magistrates.There is hereby created a code enforcement system which utilizes special magistrates,
               each of whom is to be appointed by the town council. Special magistrates shall have
               the authority to conduct hearings to determine whether a violation of any code or
               an ordinance of the town within the special magistrate jurisdiction has occurred and
               upon finding that a violation has occurred, impose fines, costs and liens against
               the violators. In addition, the town council may appoint alternate special magistrates
               to hear cases in which a special magistrate has a conflict or is unavailable for scheduled
               code enforcement hearings or an emergency code enforcement hearing.
Qualifications of a special magistrate.All magistrates shall be attorneys who are in good standing with the Florida Bar.
               Those attorneys should possess an outstanding reputation for business and professional
               ability, civic pride and community development. The clerical staff of the code enforcement
               system shall process all applications for appointment.
Term of service; removal.All special magistrates and alternate special magistrates shall be appointed for
               a term of two years and may be reappointed by the town council. Despite the term for
               which they were appointed, all magistrates serve at the pleasure of the town council
               and are not employees of the town. If any magistrate fails to attend two of three
               successive hearings without good cause, the position shall be considered vacant, and
               the town council shall promptly fill the remainder of the unexpired term. In addition,
               the town council may contract with an entity or agency including, without limitation,
               a law office or law firm to provide a special magistrate or alternate special magistrate
               who meets the qualifications of this division.
Clerical and administrative support staff.The town council shall provide clerical and administrative support to the magistrates
               as may be reasonably required for the proper performance of their duties.
(Ord. No. 2019-250, § 2, 7-8-2019)
--------------------------------------------------
Sec. 2-77. - Jurisdiction of code enforcement special magistrates.


General jurisdiction.Code enforcement special magistrates shall have the jurisdiction to hear any alleged
               violation of any code or ordinance of the town that does not provide for an exclusive
               method of enforcement through other means. Code enforcement special magistrates shall
               have jurisdiction over alleged violations involving all real property except that
               which is a homestead under section 4, article X, of the Florida Constitution, at the
               time of the alleged violation.
Orders existing prior to the creation of the code enforcement special magistrate system.All orders or decisions of any authorized entity within the town prior to the effective
               date of the ordinance from which this article is derived remain in full force and
               effect. Special magistrates shall have the authority to affirm, ratify, or amend any
               order, including orders imposing fines as liens, or decision rendered or imposed by
               any authorized entity within the town prior to the effective date of the ordinance
               from which this article is derived.
(Ord. No. 2019-250, § 2, 7-8-2019)
--------------------------------------------------
Sec. 2-78. - Powers of code enforcement special magistrates.


The code enforcement powers of the special magistrates shall be to:
Oversee the adoption of rules for the conduct of hearings. The creation of rules for
                  special magistrate hearings will be done in conjunction with the town attorney and
                  shall be approved by the town council.
Subpoena alleged violators and witnesses to hearings. Subpoenas may be served by the
                  sheriff of the county.
Subpoena evidence to hearings.
Take testimony under oath.
Issue orders. Special magistrates may issue orders having the force of law to command
                  whatever steps are necessary to bring a violation into compliance.
Establish and levy fines and costs in accordance with this article.
(Ord. No. 2019-250, § 2, 7-8-2019)
--------------------------------------------------
Sec. 2-79. - Case presentation before code enforcement special magistrates.


The town attorney or his designee shall be the legal representative for the town and
               shall be permitted to present cases to the special magistrate, to inquire of any witness,
               submit evidence, make legal arguments on behalf of the town and exercise any and all
               other powers necessary to prosecute violations within the jurisdiction of the special
               magistrate.
(Ord. No. 2019-250, § 2, 7-8-2019)
--------------------------------------------------
Sec. 2-80. - Enforcement procedure of code enforcement special magistrates.


Initiation of proceedings.It shall be the duty of the code enforcement officer to initiate enforcement proceedings
               of the various codes. No magistrate shall have the power to initiate such proceedings.
Notification of violations.Except as provided in subsections (c) and (d) of this section, if a violation of
               a code or ordinance is found, the code enforcement officer shall notify the violator
               and provide a reasonable time to correct the violation. If the violation is corrected
               and then recurs on any property owned by the alleged violator or if the violation
               is not corrected by the time specified for correction by the code enforcement officer,
               the case shall be presented to the code enforcement special magistrate even if the
               violation has been corrected prior to the hearing. Written notice of the violation
               and hearing shall be given in accordance with this article. If the violation is corrected
               and then recurs within five years on any property owned by the alleged violator after
               the hearing date, the case shall be presented to the special magistrate, upon notifying
               the alleged violator of the recurrence of the violation and hearing date, without
               any additional time to correct the violation.
Repeat violations.If a repeat violation is found, the code enforcement officer shall notify the violator
               but is not required to give the violator a reasonable time to correct the violation.
               The code enforcement officer, upon notifying the violator of a repeat violation, shall
               notify the clerical staff of the special magistrate and request a hearing. The clerical
               staff shall schedule a hearing. Written notice of such hearing shall be given in accordance
               with this article. The case may be presented to the magistrate even if the repeat
               violation has been corrected prior to the hearing, and the notice shall so state.
               If the repeat violation has been corrected, the code enforcement special magistrate
               retains the right to schedule a hearing to determine costs and impose the payment
               of reasonable enforcement fees upon the repeat violator. The repeat violator may choose
               to waive his or her rights to this hearing and pay said costs as determined by the
               magistrate.
Serious or irreparable violations.If the code enforcement officer has reason to believe a violation or the condition
               causing the violation is irreparable or irreversible in nature, the code enforcement
               officer shall make a reasonable effort to notify the violator and may immediately
               notify the special magistrate and request a hearing.
Transfer of ownership.If the owner of the property that is subject to an enforcement proceeding before
               a special magistrate or court transfers ownership of such property between the time
               the initial pleading was served and the time of the hearing, such owner shall:
Disclose, in writing, the existence and the nature of the proceeding to the prospective
               transferee.
Deliver to the prospective transferee a copy of all pleadings, notices, and other
               materials received by the owner/transferor in connection with the code enforcement
               proceeding.
Disclose, in writing, to the prospective transferee that the new owner will be responsible
               for compliance with the applicable code and with orders issued in the code enforcement
               proceeding.
File a notice with the code enforcement special magistrate informing the magistrate
               of the transfer of the subject property, with the identity and address of the new
               owner and copies of the disclosures made to the new owner, within five days after
               the date of the transfer.
(Ord. No. 2019-250, § 2, 7-8-2019)
--------------------------------------------------
Sec. 2-81. - Notice of hearing.


Contents of notice.Written notice of the initial pleading and notices of the initial hearing shall contain
               the date, time and location of the hearing and shall generally set forth the nature
               of the alleged violation with reference to the relevant code or ordinance. Notice
               shall be provided to the alleged violator by certified mail, hand delivery, posting
               or publication. The method of providing notice shall be the option of the code enforcement
               division.
Attempts of notice.Evidence that an attempt has been made to hand deliver or mail the notice, as provided
               for in this section, together with proof of publication or posting, shall be sufficient
               to show that the notice requirements of this section have been met, without regard
               to whether the alleged violator actually received such notice.
Notice by mail or hand delivery.Notice of the initial pleading and of the initial hearing may be sent by mail or
               hand delivered as follows:
The notice may be sent by certified mail, return receipt requested, provided such
               notice is sent to the owner of the property in question at the address listed in the
               county tax collector's office for tax notices, or at any other address provided to
               the magistrates' clerical staff by such owner. If the notice is unclaimed or refused,
               notice may be provided by posting and by first class mail directed to the addresses
               furnished with a properly executed certificate of service confirming the first-class
               mailing.
The notice may be hand delivered by the sheriff or other law enforcement officer with
               jurisdiction, code enforcement officer, or other person designated by the local governing
               body.
Notice by publication or posting.Notice of the initial pleading and of the initial hearing given by posting or publication
               must proceed as follows:
Publication.The hearing notice shall be published once during each week for four consecutive
               weeks in a newspaper of general circulation in the town. The newspaper shall meet
               the requirements for legal and official advertisements as prescribed under F.S. ch.
               50. Proof of publication shall be made as provided for in F.S. §§ 50.041 and 50.051.
Posting.In lieu of publication, the notice shall be posted for at least ten days prior to
               the hearing, or prior to the deadline set forth in the notice. The notice must be
               posted in at least two locations, one of which shall be the property upon which the
               violation is said to exist and the other shall be the front door of the town hall.
               Proof of posting shall be by affidavit of the person posting the notice. The affidavit
               shall include a copy of the posted notice and shall contain the date and places of
               its posting.
Order of notice.Notice by publication or posting may run concurrently with or may follow an attempt
               or attempts to provide notice by hand delivery or mail as required under subsection
               (c) of this section.
Notice subsequent to initial hearing and initial pleading.Notice of all hearings subsequent to the initial hearing and all subsequent pleadings
               shall be given by first-class mail to the alleged violator's address of record, which
               must either be the address obtained from the tax collector's office, property appraiser's
               office, or any address provided to the clerical staff by the violator. If the property
               is sold subsequent to a lien attaching and the matter is brought before a magistrate
               for any reason, the violator and the new owner shall be entitled to written notice,
               given by first class mail, of any additional proceedings before a magistrate.
(Ord. No. 2019-250, § 2, 7-8-2019)
--------------------------------------------------
Sec. 2-82. - Conduct of special magistrate hearings.


Frequency of hearings.The special magistrate shall hold code enforcement hearings as necessary. Any hearing
               of a special magistrate may be called at the request of the special magistrate or
               the town manager.
Notice.Upon scheduling of a hearing before the special magistrate, the town shall cause
               written notice to be delivered to the alleged violator as prescribed in this article.
Burden of proof.At the initial hearing, the burden of proof shall be upon the town to show by a preponderance
               of the evidence that a violation exists. At hearings subsequent to the initial hearing,
               the burden of proof shall be upon the moving party and all allegations should be proven
               by a preponderance of the evidence.
Hearings in the absence of the violator.Provided that proper notice of a hearing has been served upon the alleged violator,
               a hearing may proceed in the absence of the alleged violator.
Representation of violator.The alleged violator may be represented by counsel or any other person at any hearing.
Representation by an attorney.If the violator is represented by counsel authorized to practice law in the state,
               then that attorney shall file a notice of appearance with the town clerk.
Representation by an individual who is not an attorney.If the violator is represented at any hearing by someone other than a Florida-licensed
               attorney, then the alleged violator must prepare a notarized statement that authorizes
               such person to speak as a representative, file the statement with the town clerk.
               If the statement is not received by the town clerk prior to the hearing, the hearing
               will continue as if the violator is not present or represented. By providing a notarized
               statement, the violator understands and agrees that the representative shall have
               the authority to agree that a violation exists, to agree to the imposition of a fine
               or lien upon the violator's property, and to bind the violator to remedy a violation.
               If an alleged violator provides written authorization for a representative, the violator
               cannot later assert or complain that the representative acted without authority, nor
               can the violator contest the representative's actions.
Presentation to a magistrate.The parties shall be permitted to present brief opening and closing statements. All
               testimony shall be under oath and shall be recorded. The magistrate shall take testimony
               from the code enforcement officer, the alleged violator and any other witnesses either
               party may call. The parties, the authorized representatives of the parties, the magistrate,
               and the town attorney or his designee, may be permitted to inquire of any witnesses.
Submission of evidence.The parties may submit evidence to the magistrate. Formal rules of evidence shall
               not apply; however, fundamental due process shall be observed and shall govern all
               proceedings. Irrelevant, immaterial, or unduly repetitious evidence shall be excluded,
               but all other evidence of a type commonly relied upon by reasonably prudent persons
               in the conduct of their affairs shall be admissible, whether or not such evidence
               would be admissible in a trial in the courts of the state.
Magistrate's determination.At the conclusion of the hearing, the special magistrate shall issue findings of
               fact, based on evidence of record and conclusions of law, and shall issue an order
               based upon such findings. The order may include a specified date by which the violator
               must comply and that a fine may be imposed. Notwithstanding that a fine or lien has
               been imposed, the town may seek additional relief against a violator who has failed
               to comply with a magistrate's order. A magistrate may issue any order giving relief
               that would bring about compliance, which may include the town's authorization to remedy
               the violations on the violator's behalf regardless of whether the violation creates
               a public nuisance.
Magistrate's order.The costs of remedying violations on a violator's behalf shall be included along
               with the fine if the violator fails to correct the violations as ordered. The order
               must include a statement that any person aggrieved by the order who was a party below
               may appeal in accordance with this ordinance. A certified copy of such order may be
               recorded in the public records of the county and shall constitute notice to any subsequent
               purchasers, successors, and assigns if the violation concerns real property. The findings
               therein shall be binding upon the violator and, if the violation concerns real property,
               any subsequent purchasers, successors and assigns. If an order is recorded in the
               public records pursuant to this section and the order is complied with by the date
               specified in the order, the special magistrate shall issue an order acknowledging
               compliance that shall be recorded in the public records. A hearing is not required
               to issue such an order acknowledging compliance.
Costs of prosecution.If the town prevails in prosecuting a case before a special magistrate, the town
               shall be entitled to recover all costs incurred in prosecuting the case, including
               without limitation, all vendor, administrative, and operating costs, and such costs
               shall be included in the lien authorized under this division.
In those instances where the violation is not corrected by the time specified for
               correction by the code enforcement officer, the town shall be entitled to recover
               all costs incurred in prosecuting the case, including without limitation, all vendor,
               administrative, and operating costs, and such costs shall be included in the lien
               authorized under this article.
In those instances where the violation is corrected and them recurs within five years
               on any property owned or occupied by the alleged violator, the town shall be entitled
               to recover all costs reasonably and necessarily incurred by the town for the original
               violation and recurrence of the violation, including without limitation, all vendor,
               administrative, and operating costs, and such costs shall be imposed against the violator
               at a hearing in which notice has been sent to the violator even if the violation is
               corrected prior to the hearing and such costs shall be included in the lien authorized
               under this article.
Violation of a special magistrate's cease and desist order.It shall be a violation of this article, punishable in accordance with F.S. § 125.69,
               as it may be amended from time to time, for any person to violate a cease and desist
               order issued by a special magistrate or appellate special magistrate. Any person who
               has been sent such order by regular mail, has been given a copy of such order by hand
               delivery from a code inspector, law enforcement officer, or certified process server,
               or is on property posted with a copy of the order shall be deemed to have knowledge
               of such order and subject to prosecution of violation of this division in accordance
               with F.S. § 125.69, as it may be amended from time to time. A violation of this article
               shall be considered a violation of town ordinance and shall be prosecuted in the same
               manner as misdemeanors are prosecuted in accordance with F.S. § 125.69, as it may
               be amended from time to time.
(Ord. No. 2019-250, § 2, 7-8-2019)
--------------------------------------------------
Sec. 2-83. - Appeals to the circuit court.


An aggrieved party, including the town, may appeal a final administrative order of
               the code enforcement special magistrate to the circuit court for the Third Judicial
               Circuit with venue in Madison County. An appeal shall be filed within 30 days of the
               execution of the written order to be appealed and shall be subject to the Florida
               Rules of Appellate Procedure, as they may be amended from time to time.
(Ord. No. 2019-250, § 2, 7-8-2091)
--------------------------------------------------
Sec. 2-84. - Administrative fines, costs of repairs, costs to the town, and liens.


Authorization of administrative fines and costs of repairs.A magistrate, upon notification by the code enforcement officer that an order of
               the special magistrate has not been complied with by the set time or upon finding
               that a repeat violation has been committed, may order the violator to pay a fine in
               an amount specified in this section for each day the violation continues past the
               date set by the code enforcement special magistrate for compliance, or in the case
               of a repeat violation, for each day the repeat violation continues, beginning with
               the date the repeat violation is found to have occurred by the code inspector. In
               addition, if the violation is not remedied by the violator as ordered and the town
               is authorized to remedy such violation, the magistrate may charge the violator with
               the reasonable costs of the repairs along with the fine imposed pursuant to this section.
               Making such repairs does not create a continuing obligation on the part of the town
               to make further repairs or to maintain the property and does not create any liability
               against the town for any damages to the property if such repairs were completed in
               good faith. If a finding of a violation or repeat violation has been made according
               to this article, a hearing shall not be necessary for issuance of the order imposing
               the fine. If, after due notice and hearing, a magistrate finds a violation to be irreparable
               or irreversible in nature, it may order the violator to pay a fine as specified in
               subsection (b) of this section.
Amount of fine.The special magistrate is hereby authorized to impose a fine for a first violation,
               for a repeat violation and if the special magistrate finds a violation to be irreparable
               or irreversible in nature in the amounts set forth in F.S. § 162.09(2)(a), as it may
               be amended from time to time. In addition to such fines, the special magistrate shall
               impose additional fines to cover all costs incurred by town in enforcing its codes
               and all costs or repairs made pursuant to an order issued by the special magistrate.
               In determining the amount of the fines for violations, the special magistrate shall
               consider:
The gravity of the violation;
Any actions taken by the violator; and
Any previous violations committed by the violator.
Creation of lien.A certified copy of an order imposing a fine or imposing a fine with costs of repairs
               may be recorded in the public records and thereafter shall constitute a lien against
               the land on which the violation exists and upon any other real or personal property
               owned by the violator. The order imposing a fine may include costs of repairs made
               on the violator's behalf by the town and any costs incurred by the town in relation
               to the investigation and prosecution of said violation. Upon petition to the circuit
               court of the Third Judicial Circuit, in and for Madison County, such order shall be
               enforceable in the same manner as a court judgment by the sheriffs of this state,
               including execution and levy against the personal property of the violator, but such
               order shall not be deemed to be a court judgment except for enforcement purposes.
               A fine imposed pursuant to this section shall continue to accrue until the violator
               comes into compliance or until judgment is rendered in a suit filed pursuant to this
               section, whichever occurs first. A lien arising from a fine imposed pursuant to this
               section runs in favor of the town and a magistrate may execute a satisfaction or release
               of lien entered pursuant to this section. After three months from the filing of any
               such lien which remains unpaid, the town council may authorize the town attorney to
               foreclose on the lien or to sue to recover a money judgment for the amount of the
               lien plus accrued interest.
Duration of lien.No lien imposed pursuant to this article shall continue for a period longer than
               20 years after the certified copy of an order imposing a fine has been recorded, unless
               within that time an action to foreclose is commenced in a court of competent jurisdiction.
               In an action to foreclose on a lien or for a money judgment, the prevailing party
               is entitled to recover all costs, including a reasonable attorney's fee, that it incurs
               as a result of this action. The town shall be entitled to collect all costs incurred
               in recording and satisfying a valid lien. The continuation of the lien affected by
               the commencement of this action shall not be good creditors or subsequent purchasers
               for valuable consideration without notice, unless a notice of lis pendens is recorded.
(Ord. No. 2019-250, § 2, 7-8-2019)
--------------------------------------------------
Sec. 2-85. - Payment of fines in separate account.


The town council shall cause all administrative fines assessed and the proceeds resulting
               from the imposition of all liens levied pursuant to this article to be paid into a
               separate revenue account, which is hereby created. Said account shall be known as
               the "Code Enforcement Fines Account."
(Ord. No. 2019-250, § 2, 7-8-2019)
--------------------------------------------------
Sec. 2-86. - Ratification of code enforcement special magistrate orders prior to effective date.


All orders of the code enforcement board, special magistrate, or any authorized entity
               within the town to enforce the town's Code of Ordinances prior to effective date including
               the imposition of any liens on personal and real property resulting from Code violations,
               are hereby ratified and confirmed. The code enforcement special magistrates are hereby
               granted all rights, powers and authority to enforce and amend such orders and liens,
               as previously held by the code enforcement board, special magistrate, or any authorized
               entity within the town prior to effective date.
(Ord. No. 2019-250, § 2, 7-8-2019)
--------------------------------------------------
ARTICLE V. - ELECTIONS


--------------------------------------------------
Sec. 2-87. - Applicability of state election laws.


All municipal primary elections, general elections, and special elections of the town
               shall be held and conducted according to the election laws of the state except as
               amended by this article or unless such statutes are made inapplicable by reason of
               such changes.
(Ord. No.2020-257, § 2, 8-17-2020)
--------------------------------------------------
Sec. 2-88. - Retention of election files.


At the conclusion of each election, the town clerk shall retain all election files
               as provided by law.
(Ord. No.2020-257, § 3, 8-17-2020)
--------------------------------------------------
Sec. 2-89. - Supervising agency and use of county supervisor of elections.


The town council shall make all necessary arrangements for holding municipal primary
               elections, regular municipal general elections, and special municipal elections and
               shall declare the results thereof. The town council may instruct the town clerk to
               conduct such elections or may authorize the town clerk to contract with the supervisor
               of elections of the county to conduct such elections.
(Ord. No.2020-257, § 4, 8-17-2020)
--------------------------------------------------
Sec. 2-90. - Election date.


The regular election of the town council shall be held on the first Tuesday after
               the first Monday in November of each election year. Beginning after the 2020 election,
               the municipal primary election for the nomination of town council, if necessary, shall
               be held on the same date as the state's primary election.
(Ord. No.2020-257, § 5, 8-17-2020)
--------------------------------------------------
Sec. 2-91. - Candidates for nomination to office of councilmember of the town council; eligibility, petition or filing fee requirement, oath.


Any person who has been a resident of the town for a period of six [months] and is
               a qualified elector therein may become a candidate for nomination to the office of
               councilmember of the town council by taking and subscribing to an oath or affirmation
               in substantially the following form and filing the same as provided by state law:
Each candidate, including an incumbent, shall, prior to the end of the qualifying
               period, file with the eligibility oath a petition, on forms to be provided by the
               supervisor of elections, containing the requisite signatures of registered voters
               as provided by state law or pay an election assessment to the town clerk in the amount
               of one percent of the annual salary of the office sought. If the candidate does not
               seek to raise or expend campaign funds and certifies as such in writing and under
               oath to the town clerk, the qualifying fee may be made via cashier's check or money
               order. The town clerk, or his or her designee, shall verify the signatures on the
               petition according to law. The town clerk shall be paid in advance the sum of ten
               cents for each signature checked or the actual cost of checking such signature, whichever
               is less, by the candidate. However, if a candidate, cannot pay the election assessment
               of the charges to verify signatures without imposing an undue burden on personal resources
               or upon the resources otherwise available to such candidate, such candidate shall,
               upon written certification of such inability given under oath to the town clerk, be
               entitled to have the election assessment waived or have the signatures verified at
               the expense of the town. Reimbursement to the town from surplus campaign account funds
               shall be made according to law. If the required number of signatures has been obtained,
               and if the petition is presented within the time allowed for qualifying as a candidate,
               the candidate shall have his or her name placed on the ballot.
(Ord. No.2020-257, § 6, 8-17-2020)
--------------------------------------------------
Sec. 2-92. - Primary election and unopposed candidates.


If more than two persons qualify as candidates as provided for insection 2-91for any of the offices to be filled, then a municipal primary election shall be held.
               The candidate who receives a majority of votes in such municipal primary election
               in a respective group shall be elected to such vacancy. If no candidate receives a
               majority vote in such primary election in a respective group, then the two candidates
               who receive the greatest vote in such primary election in their respective group shall
               be on the following regular municipal election for such vacancy.
If two persons qualify as candidates as provided for insection 2-91for any of the offices to be filled, then a municipal primary election shall not
               be held, and the candidates shall be placed upon the municipal general election.
The name of an unopposed candidate for town council shall not appear on the general
               election ballot and such nominee shall be deemed to have voted for himself/herself
               at the general election and shall be declared to be the winner. The town clerk shall,
               at the reorganization meeting, furnish a certificate of election to each person shown
               to have been elected.
In the event of the death, withdrawal, or removal of all of the qualified candidates,
               or all of the qualified candidates except for one candidate, qualification for the
               vacancy shall be reopened. The supplemental qualification period shall commence at
               noon on the day following the day that the vacancy in candidacy occurs under the terms
               of this section, and such period shall continue until noon on the fourth business
               day following the opening of such period. A candidate who was a qualified candidate
               at the beginning of the supplemental qualified period shall not be required to requalify
               during such period.
(Ord. No.2020-257, § 7, 8-17-2020)
--------------------------------------------------
Sec. 2-93. - Canvassing board and certificate of election.


The county canvassing board shall canvass the returns for all municipal elections
               which are held concurrent with state or federal elections and shall present to the
               town clerk a certified copy of the results.
The charter officers shall be the canvassing board for municipal elections which are
               not held concurrent with state or federal elections and shall meet on the day of the
               election to canvass the returns and the results as shown by the returns shall be by
               the canvassing board declared as the result of the election. The town clerk shall
               furnish a certificate of election at the time of the town council reorganization meeting
               to each person shown to have been elected.
(Ord. No.2020-257, § 8, 8-17-2020)
--------------------------------------------------



Chapter 6 - ANIMALS AND FOWL


--------------------------------------------------
Sec. 6-1. - Definitions.


The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this chapter, shall have the
               meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates
               a different meaning:
Animalmeans any domesticated animal or any captive wild animal.
At largemeans any animal, other than a dog, that is off the premises of the owner, while
               not under the supervision and control of the owner, or, in the case of dogs, any dog
               that is not at all times, whether on or off the premises of the owner, under the direct
               control of the owner.
Catmeans the domestic cat, Felis catus.
Direct controlmeans effective immediate, continuous physical control of a dog at all times such
               as by means of a leash, lead, kennel, secure fence, or chain of such strength to restrain
               the dog and controlled by a responsible person capable of restraining the dog, or
               safe and secure restraint within a building or vehicle. If the controlling person
               is at all times fully and clearly within unobstructed sight and hearing of the dog,
               voice control shall be considered direct control when the dog is a working dog actively
               performing tasks such as herding or hazing, or when a dog is actually participating
               in certified training or in an official showing, obedience, or field event. Direct
               control shall not be required of dogs actually participating in a legal sport in an
               authorized area or of government police dogs.
Dogmeans the domestic dog, Canis familiaris, or any of the various other animals of
               the family Canidae.
Impoundmentmeans impoundment at a shelter or the taking or picking up and confining of an animal
               by an officer under the provisions of this chapter.
Legal responsibilitymeans, for the purpose of this chapter, the owner as hereinafter defined shall be
               considered legally responsible for the actions of an animal; and the care of an animal.
               In the absence of written proof of ownership, all adult members of the household shall
               be considered legally responsible.
Officermeans any law enforcement officer or any animal control officer.
Ownermeans any person, partnership, corporation or other legal entity owning, harboring,
               or keeping any animal, or in the case of a person under the age of 18 years of age,
               that person's parent or legal guardian. The term "owner" shall not apply to any veterinary
               clinic or boarding kennel.
Personmeans any individual (18 years of age or older, including, when appropriate, juveniles
               tried as adults), firm, association, joint venture, partnership, estate, trust, business
               trust, syndicate, fiduciary, corporation, entity, or any group or combination thereof.
Working dogmeans a dog specifically trained to perform tasks such as herding or hazing. A working
               dog shall be exempt from direct control requirements while actively working on public
               or private property with the consent of the public or private property manager, owner,
               or legal tenant if the dog has successfully completed the American Kennel Club Canine
               Good Citizen Program and can effectively demonstrate the work related task it is trained
               to perform upon the request of an officer. For the purposes of this chapter, working
               dog does not refer to a service animal, emotional support animal or a therapy animal.
(Ord. No. 2019-252, § 4, 12-9-2019)
--------------------------------------------------
Sec. 6-2. - Animals at large.


No animal is permitted to run at large within the corporate limits of the town. The
               town manager, or designee, may issue citations against the owner, or any other individual
               permitting the animal to be at large for violation of this provision.
No person shall under any circumstances tether or otherwise confine any animal in
               a manner that is injurious to the animal's health, safety and well-being. Tethering
               of an animal is prohibited during severe weather occurrences and natural disasters,
               including but not limited to extreme heat, extreme cold, flood, hail, fire, tornado,
               hurricane, or blizzard. Proper and humane tethering includes, but is not limited to,
               the following:
The tether shall be attached to a properly fitted collar or harness. The use of a
               choke chain or prong collar is prohibited.
The tether shall not extend over an object or edge in such a manner that could result
               in strangulation of or injury to the animal. The length of the tether must be a minimum
               of six feet and allow entry and egress from proper shelter, access to drinking water,
               and freedom to move about and avoid area of animal waste.
The weight or gauge of any tether or chain shall not be more than necessary to establish
               direct control. Logging chains and vehicle tow chains are expressly prohibited. No
               person shall add any weight to an animal collar, harness, chain or tether.
No animals shall be tethered on a vacant or abandoned property.
It shall be unlawful for any animal to run or remain at large upon any private property,
               whether under direct control or not, without the consent of that property administrator,
               owner, or legal tenant.
No person shall tether an animal on public or private property, or in such a manner
               that the animal has access to public or private property, without the consent of that
               property administrator, owner, or legal tenant.
Any animal on public property shall wear a properly fitted collar equipped with identification
               that includes the name and phone number of the owner.
The owner or keeper of any animal found at large shall be responsible for violation
               of this chapter. Any animal found at large may be impounded by the town.
Any person who violates the provisions hereof shall be guilty of a noncriminal violation
               as defined in F.S. § 775.08, to be enforced in accordance with the provisions of applicable
               state law with respect to the investigation, prosecution, and adjudication of noncriminal
               offenses. Any person who violates the provisions hereof for a second time, or which
               violates the provisions hereof which violation causes or contributes to any injury
               to any person, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor of the second degree as defined by
               applicable state law with respect to investigation, prosecution, and adjudication
               of criminal offenses.
Exceptions. This section shall not apply to:
Any animal that is specifically trained to assist or provide personal services for
               a disabled person, as defined under the Americans with Disabilities Act and is in
               the course of performing those services.
Law enforcement dogs conducting official business.
Authorized rescue and emergency dogs conducting official business.
Dogs at town designated off-leash areas when under the immediate supervision of the
               owner and fully complying with all posted rules.
Working dogs specifically trained to perform tasks such as herding or hazing.
(Ord. No. 2019-252, § 4, 12-9-2019)
--------------------------------------------------



Chapter 8 - BUILDINGS


--------------------------------------------------
Sec. 8-1. - Building regulations adopted.


Pursuant to F.S. ch. 553, the provisions of the state building code, as adopted by
               the state building commission, shall apply to the construction, erection, alteration,
               modification, repair, equipment, use and occupancy, location, maintenance, removal
               and demolition of every public and private building, structure or facility or floating
               residential structure, or any appurtenances connected or attached to such buildings,
               structures or facilities of the town, other than those specifically exempted by F.S.
               § 553.73, or by the state building code.
--------------------------------------------------
Sec. 8-2. - Delegation of authority.


Pursuant to F.S. § 553.79(9), the town delegates enforcement and administration of
               this chapter to the county to review all permit applications, plans, and issue permits
               or other orders as may be necessary to comply with the state building code. Notwithstanding
               any provision to the contrary, the town adopts all provisions of the county codes
               and ordinances now in existence or as may be enacted relating to building construction
               regulation, building permits, building inspection, electrical building regulations
               and inspections, plumbing building regulations and inspections, and fire prevention
               building regulations and inspections, mechanical building regulations and inspections
               and mobile home minimum standards and inspections, and issuances of certificates of
               occupancy, together with related fees and costs, which provisions shall have application
               and applicability within the town limits.
--------------------------------------------------
Sec. 8-3. - Permits required.


Unless otherwise permitted by law, no person, firm or corporation shall erect or place,
               or cause to be erected or placed, any building or structure of any kind whatsoever
               within the corporate limits of the town without having first obtained a permit authorizing
               the erection or placing of said building or structure.
(Ord. No. 129, §§ 1, 2, 10-2-1956)
--------------------------------------------------



Chapter 10 - BUSINESS REGULATIONS[1]


--------------------------------------------------
Sec. 10-1. - Business tax levied, maintained.


Unless otherwise prohibited by state or federal law, there is hereby levied a business
               tax in the amounts established by the town council from time to time, which amounts
               shall be maintained on file with the town clerk for the privilege of engaging in or
               managing any business, profession or occupation within the town on the following:
Any person who maintains a permanent business location or branch office within said
                  municipality for the privilege of engaging in or managing any business within its
                  jurisdiction; and
Any person who maintains a permanent business location or branch office within said
                  municipality for the privilege of engaging in or managing any profession or occupation
                  within its jurisdiction.
(Ord. No. 119, § 3-A, x-x-1992)
--------------------------------------------------
Sec. 10-2. - Business tax amounts.


Those licenses not renewed by October 1 shall be considered delinquent and subject
               to a delinquency penalty of ten percent for the month of October, plus an additional
               five percent penalty for each month of delinquency thereafter until paid; provided
               that the total delinquency penalty shall not exceed 25 percent of the occupational
               license fee for the delinquent establishment.
It shall be the duty of all such delinquents to pay such increased business tax to
               the town clerk, and the payment of said amount to the town clerk shall be a condition
               precedent to the issuance of the license provided by ordinance.
In addition to the payment of such increased business tax, all such delinquents shall
               be subject to prosecution, and the fines and penalties now prescribed by ordinance,
               for the offense of engaging in, or carrying on the business, occupation or profession,
               or exercising the privilege, without first obtaining the license therefor required
               by ordinance.
(Ord. No. 119, § 7, x-x-1992)
--------------------------------------------------
Sec. 10-3. - Exemptions.


The tax imposed by the ordinance on express companies, railroad companies, telephone
               companies, telegraph companies and other companies engaged in interstate commerce
               is imposed upon the business actually done by any such company within the town and
               to and from points within the state, and is not imposed upon any business done for
               the United States Government or upon interstate business.
(Ord. No. 119, § 9, x-x-1992)
--------------------------------------------------
Sec. 10-4. - Display of licenses.


Every person, firm or corporation having a license shall exhibit the same when called
               upon to do so by an authorized officer of the town, and all licenses must be conspicuously
               displayed at all times.
(Ord. No. 119, § 10, x-x-1992)
--------------------------------------------------
Sec. 10-5. - Applicability.


The fact that any person, firm or corporation representing himself or itself as engaged
               in any business, calling, profession or occupation for the transaction of which a
               license is required or that such person, firm or corporation exhibited a sign or advertisement
               indicating such business, a calling, profession or occupation shall be evidence of
               the liability of such person, firm or corporation to pay a license.
(Ord. No. 119, § 11, x-x-1992)
--------------------------------------------------
Sec. 10-6. - License transfers.


All business licenses may be transferred to a new owner when there is a bona fide
               sale of the business upon payment of a transfer fee in the amount established by the
               council and presentation of evidence of the sale and the original license.
Upon written request and presentation of the original license, any license may be
               transferred from one location to another location in the same municipality upon payment
               of a transfer fee in the amount established by the council.
(Ord. No. 119, § 3, x-x-1992)
--------------------------------------------------



Chapter 12 - FIRE PREVENTION[1]


--------------------------------------------------
Sec. 12-1. - Adoption of fire prevention code.


The Florida Fire Prevention Code, 2007 edition, published by the National Fire Protection
               Association (NFPA) as may be amended from time to time, is adopted by the town along
               with all subsequent changes, revisions and or modifications thereto. The town adopts
               and shall enforce the provisions of F.S. § 633.208, and shall recognize them as minimum
               fire safety standards as set forth by the state legislature.
--------------------------------------------------
Sec. 12-2. - Interlocal agreement.


All volunteer firefighters shall work with the Madison County Department of Emergency
               Medical Services in accordance with the terms set forth by interlocal agreement.
--------------------------------------------------



CHAPTER 14 - HUMAN RELATIONS


--------------------------------------------------
ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL


--------------------------------------------------
Secs. 14-1—14-18. - Reserved.


--------------------------------------------------
ARTICLE II. - FAIR HOUSING


--------------------------------------------------
Sec. 14-19. - Title.


This article shall be known as the "Fair Housing Ordinance" of the town.
(Ord. No. 173, § 1, 12-3-1985)
--------------------------------------------------
Sec. 14-20. - Declaration of policy.


It is the policy of the town, in keeping with the laws of the United States of America
               and the spirit of the state constitution, to promote through fair, orderly and lawful
               procedure the opportunity of each person so desiring to obtain housing of such person's
               choice in this town, without regard to race, color, ancestry, national origin, handicap,
               religion, sex, marital status, familial status or age, and, to that end, to prohibit
               discrimination in housing by any person.
(Ord. No. 173, § 2, 12-3-1985; Ord. No. 175, § 1, 12-29-1986; Ord. No. 181, § 1, 9-4-1990)
--------------------------------------------------
Sec. 14-21. - Definitions.


The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have the
               meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates
               a different meaning:
Administratormeans that person appointed by the town council pursuant tosection 14-24.
Age. Unless the context clearly indicates otherwise, the term "age" exclusively means
               persons who are 18 years of age or older.
Disabilitymeans an impairment which substantially limits one or more major life activities.
Discriminatory housing practicemeans an act that is unlawful undersection 14-22.
Familial statusmeans one or more individuals who have not attained the age of 18 years being domiciled
               with:
A parent or another person having legal custody of such individual; or
The designee of such parent of other person having such custody, with the written
                  permission of such parent or other person.
Familymeans one or more persons living together as a single housekeeping unit in a dwelling.
Housingorhousing accommodationmeans any building, structure, or portion thereof, mobile home or trailer, or other
               facility which is occupied as, or designed or intended for occupancy as, a residence
               by one or more families, and any vacant land which is offered for sale or lease for
               the construction or location thereon of any such building, structure, or portion thereof,
               mobile home or trailer or other facility.
Lending institutionmeans any bank, insurance company, savings and loan association or any other person
               or organization regularly engaged in the business of lending money, guaranteeing loans,
               or sources of credit information, including, but not limited to, credit bureaus.
Ownermeans any person, including, but not limited to, a lessee, sublessee, assignee, manager,
               or agent, and also including the town and its departments or other sub-units, having
               the right of ownership or possession or the authority to sell or lease any housing
               accommodation.
Personmeans one or more individuals, corporations, partnerships, associations, labor organizations,
               legal representatives, mortgage companies, joint stock companies, trusts, unincorporated
               organizations, or public corporations, including, but not limited to, the town or
               any department or sub-unit thereof.
Real estate agentmeans any real estate broker, any real estate salesman, or any other person, employee,
               agent, or otherwise, engaged in the management or operation of any real property.
Real estate brokerorsalesmanmeans a person, whether licensed or not, who, for or with the expectation of receiving
               a consideration, lists, sells, purchases, exchanges, rents, or leases real property,
               or who negotiates or attempts to negotiate any of these activities, or who holds himself
               out as engaged in these activities, or who negotiates or attempts to negotiate a loan
               secured or to be secured by mortgage or other encumbrances upon real property, or
               who is engaged in the business of listing real property in a publication; or a person
               employed by or acting on behalf of any of these.
Real estate transactionincludes the sale, purchase, exchange, rental or lease of real property, and any
               contract pertaining thereto.
Rentincludes lease, sublease, assignment and/or rental, including any contract to do
               any of the foregoing, or otherwise granting for a consideration the right to occupy
               premises that are not owned by the occupant.
Respondentmeans any person against whom a complaint is filed pursuant to this article.
Saleincludes any contract to sell, exchange, or to convey, transfer or assign legal or
               equitable title to, or a beneficial interest in, real property.
(Ord. No. 173, § 3, 12-3-1985; Ord. No. 175, § 2, 12-29-1986; Ord. No. 181, § 2, 9-4-1990)
--------------------------------------------------
Sec. 14-22. - Unlawful housing practices.


Sale or rental and advertising in connection therewith.Except as provided insection 14-23, it shall be unlawful and a discriminatory housing practice for an owner, or any
               other person engaging in a real estate transaction, or for a real estate broker, as
               defined in this article, because of race, color, ancestry, national origin, handicap,
               religion, sex, marital status, familial status or age:
To refuse to engage in a real estate transaction with a person or otherwise make unavailable
               or deny housing to any person.
To discriminate against a person in the terms, conditions or privileges of a real
               estate transaction or in the furnishing of facilities or services in connection therewith,
               or because of such person's exercise of his right to free association.
To refuse to receive or to fail to transmit a bona fide offer to engage in a real
               estate transaction from a person.
To refuse to negotiate for a real estate transaction with a person.
To represent to a person that housing is not available for inspection, sale, rental
               or lease when in fact, it is so available, or to fail to bring a property listing
               to such person's attention, or to refuse to permit him to inspect the housing.
To steer any person away from or to any housing.
To make, print, publish, circulate, post or mail, or cause to be made, printed, published,
               circulated, posted or mailed, any notice, statement, advertisement or sign, or to
               use a form of application or photograph for a real estate transaction or, except in
               connection with a written affirmative action plan, to make a record or oral or written
               inquiry in connection with a prospective real estate transaction, which indicates
               directly or indirectly an intent to make a limitation, specification, or discrimination
               with respect thereto.
To offer, solicit, accept, use or retain a listing of housing with the understanding
               that a person may be discriminated against in a real estate transaction or in the
               furnishing of facilities or services in connection therewith.
To induce or attempt to induce any person to transfer an interest in any housing by
               representations regarding the existing or potential proximity of housing owned, used
               or occupied by any person protected by the terms of this article.
To make any misrepresentations concerning the listing for sale or rental, or the anticipated
               listing for sale or rental, or the sale or rental of any housing in any area in the
               town for the purpose of inducing or attempting to induce any such listing or any of
               the above transactions.
To retaliate or discriminate in any manner against any person because of his opposing
               a practice declared unlawful by this article, or because he has filed a complaint,
               testified, assisted or participated in any manner in any investigation, proceeding
               or conference under this article.
To aid, abet, incite, compel or coerce any person to engage in any of the practices
               prohibited by the provisions of this article, or to obstruct or prevent any person
               from complying with the provisions of this article, or any conciliation agreement
               entered into thereunder.
By canvassing, to compel any unlawful practices prohibited by the provisions of this
               article.
Otherwise to deny to, or withhold, any housing accommodations from a person.
To promote, induce or influence, or attempt to promote, induce or influence, by the
               use of postal cards, letters, circulars, telephone, visitation or any other means,
               directly or indirectly, a property owner, occupant, or tenant to list for sale, sell,
               remove from, lease, assign, transfer, or otherwise dispose of any housing by referring
               as a part of a process or pattern of inciting neighborhood unrest, community tension,
               or fear of racial, color, religious, nationality or ethnic change in any street, block,
               neighborhood, or any other area, to the race, color, religion, or national origin
               of actual or anticipated neighbors, tenants or other prospective buyers of any housing.
To cause to be made any untrue or intentionally misleading statement or advertisement,
               or, in any other manner, attempt as part of a process or pattern of inciting neighborhood
               unrest, community tension or fear of racial, color, religious, nationality or ethnic
               change in any street, block, neighborhood, or any other area, to obtain a listing
               of any housing for sale, rental, assignment, transfer or other disposition, where
               such statement advertisement or other representation is false or materially misleading,
               or where there is insufficient basis to judge its truth or falsity to warrant making
               the statement, or to make any other material misrepresentations in order to obtain
               such listing, sale, removal from, lease, assignment, transfer of other disposition
               of said housing.
To place a sign or display any other device either purporting to offer for sale, lease,
               assignment, transfer or other disposition or tending to lead to the belief that a
               bona fide offer is being made to sell, lease, assign, transfer or otherwise dispose
               of any housing that is not in fact available or offered for sale, lease, assignment,
               transfer or other disposition.
Financing assistance.It shall be unlawful and a discriminatory housing practice for any lending institution,
               as defined herein, to deny a loan or other financial assistance to a person applying
               therefor for the purpose of purchasing, constructing, improving, repairing or maintaining
               housing, or to discriminate against such person in the fixing of the amount, interest
               rate, duration, or other terms or conditions of such loan or other financial assistance,
               because of race, color, ancestry, national origin, handicap, religion, sex, marital
               status, familial status or age of such person or of any person associated with such
               person in connection with such loan or other financial assistance or for purposes
               of such loan or other assistance, or of the present or prospective owners, lessees,
               tenants or occupants of the housing in relation to which such loan or other financial
               assistance is to be made or given; provided that nothing contained in this subsection
               shall impair the scope or effectiveness of the exceptions contained insection 14-23.
Brokerage services.It shall be unlawful and a discriminatory housing practice to deny any person access
               to or membership or participation in any multiple listing service, real estate brokers'
               organization or other service, organization, or facility related to the business of
               selling or renting housing, or to discriminate against such person in the terms or
               conditions of such access, membership or participation because of race, color, ancestry,
               national origin, handicap, religion, sex, marital status, familial status, or age.
(Ord. No. 173, § 4, 12-3-1985; Ord. No. 175, § 3, 12-29-1986; Ord. No. 181, § 3, 9-4-1990)
--------------------------------------------------
Sec. 14-23. - Exemptions and exceptions.


Nothing contained insection 14-22hereof shall prohibit a religious organization, association, or society, or any nonprofit
               charitable or educational institution or organization operated, supervised or controlled
               by or in conjunction with a religious organization, association, or society, from
               limiting or from advertising the sale, rental or occupancy of housing which it owns
               or operates for other than a commercial purpose to persons of the same religion, or
               from giving preference to such persons. Nor shall anything in this article prohibit
               a private club not in fact open to the public, which, as an incident to its primary
               purpose, provides lodgings which it owns or operates for other than a commercial purpose,
               from limiting the rental or occupancy of such lodgings to its members or from giving
               preference to its members.
Nothing insection 14-22, other thansection 14-22(a)(7), shall apply to:
Any single-family house sold or rented by an owner; provided that such private individual
               owner does not own more than three such single-family houses at any one time; provided,
               further, that in the case of the sale of any such single-family house by a private
               individual owner not residing in such house at the time of such sale or who was not
               the most recent resident of such house prior to such sale, the exemption granted by
               this subsection shall apply only with respect to one such sale within any 24-month
               period; provided, further, that such bona fide private individual owner does not own
               any interest in, nor is there owned or reserved on such owner's behalf, under any
               express or voluntary agreement, title to or any rights to all or a portion of the
               proceeds from the sale or rental of, more than three such single-family houses at
               any one time; provided, further, that the owner sells or rents such housing without
               the use in any manner of the sales or rental facilities or the sales or rental services
               of any real estate broker, agent, or salesperson, or of such facilities or services
               of any person in the business of selling or renting housing, or of any employee or
               agency of any such broker, agent, salesperson, or person and without the publication,
               posting, or mailing, after notice, of any advertisement or written notice in violation
               ofsection 14-22(a)(7), but nothing in this provision shall prohibit the use of attorneys, escrow
               agents, abstractors, title companies, and other such professional assistance as necessary
               to perfect or transfer the title; or
Rooms or units in housing containing living quarters occupied or intended to be occupied
               by no more than four families living independently of each other, if the owner actually
               maintains and occupies one of such living quarters as such owner's residence, provided
               that the owner sells or rents such rooms or units without the use in any manner of
               the sales or rental facilities or the sales or rental services of any real estate
               broker, agent or salesperson, or of such facilities or services of any person in the
               business of selling or renting housing, or of any employee or agency of any such broker,
               agent, salespersons or person and without the publication, posting or mailing, after
               notices of any advertisement or written notice in violation ofsection 14-22(a)(7), but nothing in this proviso shall prohibit the use of attorneys, escrow agents,
               abstractors, title companies, and other such professional assistance as necessary
               to perfect or transfer the title. For the purpose of this subsection, a person shall
               be deemed to be in the business of selling or renting housing if:
Nothing insection 14-22hereof shall be construed to:
Bar any person from restricting sales, rentals, leases or occupancy, or from giving
               preference to persons of a given age for bona fide housing intended solely for the
               elderly or bona fide housing intended solely for minors.
Make it an unlawful act to require that a person have legal capacity to enter into
               a contract or lease.
Bar any person from advertising or from refusing to sell or rent any housing which
               is planned exclusively for, and occupied exclusively by, individuals of one sex, to
               any individual of the opposite sex.
Bar any person from selling, renting or advertising any housing which is planned exclusively
               for, and occupied exclusively by, unmarried individuals to unmarried individuals only.
Bar any person from advertising or from refusing to sell or rent any housing which
               is planned exclusively for married couples without children or from segregating families
               with children to special units of housing.
Bar any person from refusing to sell or rent any housing to unmarried individuals
               cohabiting contrary to law.
Bar any person from refusing a loan or other financial assistance to any person whose
               life expectancy, according to generally accepted mortality tables, is less than the
               term for which the loan is requested.
Nothing insection 14-22shall be construed to require any person renting or selling a dwelling to modify,
               alter, or adjust the dwelling in order to provide physical accessibility except as
               otherwise required by law.
(Ord. No. 173, § 5, 12-3-1985; Ord. No. 175, § 4, 12-29-1986)
--------------------------------------------------
Sec. 14-24. - Administrator; authority and responsibilities.


Town manager to administer.The town manager has the authority and responsibility for administering this article.
General powers and duties.The administrator shall:
Receive written complaints as hereinafter provided insection 14-25relative to alleged unlawful acts under this article when a complainant seeks the
               administrator's good offices to conciliate.
Upon receiving a written complaint, make such investigations as the administrator
               deems appropriate to ascertain facts and issues.
Utilize methods of persuasion, conciliation, and mediation or information adjustment
               of grievances.
Establish, administer or review programs at the request of the town council and make
               reports on such programs to the town council.
Bring to the attention of the town council items that may require the town council's
               notice or action to resolve.
Render to the town council annual written reports of his activities under the provisions
               of this article along with such comments and recommendations as he may choose to make.
Cooperate with and render technical assistance to federal, state, local and other
               public and private agencies, organizations and institutions which are formulating
               or carrying on programs to prevent or eliminate the unlawful discriminatory practices
               covered by the provisions of this article.
Determination of probable cause.Whenever the administrator determines that there is probable cause to believe that
               there has been a violation of the provisions of this article, but only after having
               fully processed the complaint in which such violation is alleged in the manner hereinafter
               provided, he shall refer the matter, along with the facts he has gathered in his investigations,
               to the proper county, state or federal authorities for appropriate legal action.
Promulgation of forms and regulations.The administrator shall promulgate, publish and distribute the necessary forms, rules
               and regulations to implement the provisions of this article.
(Ord. No. 173, § 6, 12-3-1985)
--------------------------------------------------
Sec. 14-25. - Complaints procedure.


A person who claims that another person has committed a discriminatory housing practice
               against him may report that offense to the administrator by filing an informal complaint
               within 60 days after the date of the alleged discriminatory housing practice and not
               later.
The administrator shall treat a complaint referred by the Secretary of Housing and
               Urban Development or the Attorney General of the United States under the Fair Housing
               Act of 1968, Public Law 90-284, as an informal complaint filed under subsection (a)
               of this section.
An informal complaint must be in writing, verified or affirmed, on a form to be supplied
               by the administrator and shall contain the following:
Identity of the respondent.
Date of offense and date of filing the informal complaint.
General statement of facts of the offense including the basis of the discrimination
               (race, color, ancestry, national origin, handicap, religion, sex, marital status,
               familial status, or age).
Name and signature of the complainant.
Each complaint shall be held in confidence by the administrator unless and until the
               complainant and the respondent consent in writing that it shall be made public.
Within 15 days after the filing of the informal complaint, the administrator shall
               transmit a copy of the same to each respondent named therein by certified mail, return
               receipt requested. Thereupon, the respondent may file a written, verified informal
               answer to the informal complaint within 20 days of the date of receipt of the informal
               complaint.
An informal complaint or answer may be amended at any time, and the administrator
               shall furnish a copy of each amended informal complaint or answer to the respondent
               or complainant, respectively, as promptly as practicable.
The administrator shall assist complainants or respondents when necessary in the preparation
               and filing of informal complaints or answers or any comments thereto.
(Ord. No. 173, § 7, 12-3-1985; Ord. No. 175, § 5, 12-29-1986)
--------------------------------------------------
Sec. 14-26. - Processing complaints.


Within 30 days after the filing of an informal complaint, the administrator shall
               make such investigation as he deems appropriate to ascertain facts and issues. If
               the administrator shall deem that there are reasonable grounds to believe that a violation
               has occurred and can be resolved by conciliation, he shall attempt to conciliate the
               matter by methods of initial conference and persuasion with all the interested parties
               and such representatives as the parties may choose to assist them. Conciliation conferences
               shall be informal and nothing said or done in the course of the informal conference
               with the individuals to resolve the dispute may be made public or used as evidence
               in a subsequent proceeding by either party without the written consent of both the
               complainant and the respondent. The administrator or any employee of the administrator
               who shall make public any information in violation of this provision shall be deemed
               guilty of a violation of a town ordinance and shall be subject to penalty as provided
               in this Code.
If the parties desire to conciliate, the terms of the conciliation shall be reduced
               to writing in the form approved by the administrator and must be signed and verified
               by the complainant and respondent and approved by the administrator. The conciliation
               agreement is for conciliation purposes only and does not constitute an admission by
               any party that the law has been violated.
If the administrator deems that there is not probable cause to believe that a particular
               alleged discriminatory housing practice has been committed, the administrator shall
               take no further action with respect to the alleged offense.
If the administrator, with respect to any matter which involves a contravention of
               this article:
Fails to conciliate a complaint after the parties on which this article shall take
               effect, the provisions therein shall be controlling in the area of jurisdiction of
               the town.
Determines that the violation alleged in the complaint cannot be resolved by conciliation,
               he shall notify both the complainant and the respondent within 30 days of the failure
               of the determination, and he shall proceed as provided insection 14-25(c).
(Ord. No. 173, § 8, 12-3-1985)
--------------------------------------------------
Sec. 14-27. - Additional remedies.


The procedures prescribed by this article do not constitute an administrative prerequisite
               to another action or remedy available under other law. Further, nothing in this article
               shall be deemed to modify, impair or otherwise affect any right or remedy conferred
               by the Constitution or laws of the United States or the state, and the provisions
               of this article shall be in addition to those provided by such other laws.
(Ord. No. 173, § 9, 12-3-1985)
--------------------------------------------------
Sec. 14-28. - Education and public information.


The administrator may conduct educational and public informational activities that
               are designed to promote the policy of this article.
(Ord. No. 173, § 10, 12-3-1985)
--------------------------------------------------
Sec. 14-29. - Untruthful complaints or testimony.


It shall be a violation of this article for any person knowingly and willfully to
               make false or untrue statements, accusations or allegations in a complaint filed hereunder
               or to give false testimony concerning violations of this article.
(Ord. No. 173, § 11, 12-3-1985)
--------------------------------------------------



Chapter 16 - NUISANCES, DANGEROUS BUILDINGS, AND HAZARDOUS LANDS


--------------------------------------------------
Sec. 16-1. - Nuisances prohibited.


It shall be unlawful for any person to cause, permit, maintain or allow the creation
               or maintenance of a nuisance.
For the purposes of this chapter, the term "nuisance" is hereby defined as any person
               doing an unlawful act, or omitting to perform a duty, or suffering or permitting any
               condition or thing to be or exist, which act, omission, condition or thing either:
Injures or endangers the comfort, repose, health or safety of others;
Offends decency;
Is offensive to the senses;
Unlawfully interferes with, obstructs or tends to obstruct or renders dangerous for
               passage any public or private street, highway, sidewalk, stream, ditch or drainage;
In any way renders other persons insecure in life or the use of property; or
Essentially interferes with the comfortable enjoyment of life and property, or tends
               to depreciate the value of the property of others.
(Ord. No. 196, §§ 1, 2, x-x-xxxx)
--------------------------------------------------
Sec. 16-2. - Certain items, conditions or actions deemed as nuisances.


The maintaining, using, placing, depositing, leaving or permitting to be or remain
               on any public or private property of any of the following items, conditions or action
               are hereby declared to be and constitute a nuisance; provided, however, this enumeration
               shall not be deemed or construed to be conclusive, limiting or restrictive:
Any dangerous building as defined by this chapter;
Any properties exhibited excessive growth as defined by this chapter;
Any hazardous lands as defined by this chapter;
Any goal in public street right-of-way as defined by this chapter;
All unnecessary or unauthorized noises and annoying vibrations, including animal noises;
All disagreeable or obnoxious odors and stenches, as well as the condition, substances
                  or other causes which give rise to the emission or generation of such odors and stenches;
The carcasses of animals or fowl not disposed of within a reasonable time after death;
The pollution of any public well or cistern, stream, lake, canal or body of water
                  by sewage, dead animals, creamery, industrial wastes or other substances;
Any building, structure or other place or location where any activity which is in
                  violation of local, state or federal law is conducted, performed or maintained;
Any accumulation of stagnant water permitted or maintained on any lot or piece of
                  ground;
Dense smoke, noxious fumes, gas, soot or cinders, in unreasonable quantities;
Any motor or other vehicle in a wrecked, junked, partially dismantled or abandoned
                  condition (unless in connection with a business enterprise lawfully situated and licensed).
(Ord. No. 2019-249, § 3, 7-8-2019)
--------------------------------------------------
Sec. 16-3. - Dangerous buildings and hazardous lands.


Definitions.For purposes of this chapter, the following words, terms and phrases shall have the
               meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates
               a different meaning:
Dangerous buildingsmeans all buildings or structures that have any or all of the following defects:
Those whose interior walls or other structural members list, lean, or buckle, or the
                  support for which has become damaged or deteriorated, to such an extent that there
                  is a reasonable likelihood that such walls or other structural members may fall or
                  give way;
Those which have improperly distributed loads upon the floors or roofs or in which
                  the same or overloaded or which have insufficient strength to be reasonably safe for
                  the purposes used;
Those which have been damaged by fire, wind, or other causes so as to have become
                  dangerous to life, safety of the occupants, or the health, safety, and general welfare
                  of the public;
Those which have become or are so dilapidated, decayed, unsafe, unsanitary, vermin
                  or rat infested, containing filth or contamination, or lacking ventilation, illumination,
                  sanitary, heating facilities, or other essential equipment, or which so utterly fail
                  to provide the amenities essential to the decent living that they are unfit for human
                  habitation, or are likely to cause sickness or disease, so as to work injury to the
                  health, safety, and general welfare of those living therein or to the public;
Those having light, air, and sanitation facilities that are inadequate to protect
                  the health, safety, and general welfare of the public who live or may work therein;
Those having inadequate facilities for egress in case of fire or panic, or those having
                  insufficient stairways, elevators, fire escapes, or other means of egress, according
                  to the standards in effect when the building was constructed;
Those that have parts thereof that are so attached that there is a reasonable likelihood
                  they may fall or injure members of the public or property in general;
Those that, because of their conditions, are unsafe and are unsanitary or dangerous
                  to a degree that constitutes a hazard to the health, safety, or general welfare of
                  the people of the town;
Those that are vacant and not sufficiently secured to prevent easy access to trespassers,
                  loiterers, and vagrants;
Those that are untended or unkempt to the extent that they pose a health or safety
                  hazard;
Those that are dangerous to the life, health, property, or safety of the public or
                  the occupants by not providing minimum safeguards to protect or warn occupants in
                  the event of fire;
Those which are dangerous to the life, health, property, or safety of the public or
                  the occupants because such building contains unsafe equipment.
Excessive growthmeans vegetation over 12 inches high and that is or may reasonably become infested
               by pests or may create a fire, health, or safety hazard. The term "excessive growth"
               includes vegetation growing from private lands into or across public rights-of-way,
               utility easements, sidewalks, drainage ditches, swales, or streets. The term "excessive
               growth" does not include the following unless the growth constitutes a fire, health,
               or safety hazard:
Shrubs, trees, or bushes (natural or cultivated) used for landscape purposes;
Controlled, managed, and maintained low-maintenance natural landscaping; or
The understory of hammocks that are protected through development regulations, conditions,
                  or agreements, and vegetation within wetlands, stormwater retention lake littoral
                  zones, or within 150 feet of a regulated creek.
Hazardous landsmeans lands unoccupied as well as occupied upon which there exists a condition or
               conditions dangerous to the occupants of neighboring properties or to the health,
               safety, and general welfare of the public, including, but not limited to:
Land upon which there exists in accumulation of material or items stored outside of
                  the structure, including, but not limited to, lumber, tires, automobile parts, trash,
                  hazardous waste, abandoned personal property, unusable or discarded household items,
                  inoperative or discarded machinery or equipment, inoperative automobiles, appliances,
                  solid waste, dangerous chemicals, explosives, or other hazardous substances without
                  sufficient protections for the control of same, junk, used scrap, construction, or
                  demolition materials, tanks, drums, glass, iron, or any other material or items that
                  may:
Land upon which there is excessive growth of vegetation as defined above.
Land which, due to excessive growth of vegetation, the existence of hazardous buildings
                  or other conditions, is inhabited or frequented by criminals, fleeing felons, fugitives
                  from justice, or persons who loiter or prowl about, and thereby threatens and endangers
                  the public health, safety, and general welfare of the people of the town.
Ownermeans any person who, alone, jointly or severally with others, holds legal or equitable
               title to any building or land within the scope of this chapter and shall include the
               occupant, lessee, mortgagee, or agent and all other persons having an interest in
               said building or land as shown by the records of the clerk of the circuit court of
               the county.
Townmeans the Town of Greenville, Florida, a political subdivision of the State of Florida.
Unsafe equipmentmeans any absent or malfunctioning grease trap or grease interceptor, if required
               by applicable code or codes, heating equipment, elevator, moving stairway, electrical
               wiring or device, flammable liquid containers, or other equipment on the premises
               or within the building that is in such disrepair or condition that such equipment
               is a hazard to life, health, property, or safety of the public or occupancy of the
               premises or building.
Creating, keeping, maintaining, allowing the existence of dangerous buildings or hazardous
                  lands unlawful.It shall be unlawful for any owner of a one acre or smaller lot of real property
               in a platted subdivision, to create, keep, maintain, or allow the existence of any
               dangerous building or hazardous land, as defined in this section, in or on such lot.
               This chapter shall be effective only in the incorporated area of the town.
Enforcement.This chapter may be enforced to remedy violations involving all real property except
               that property which is a homestead under section 4, article X, of the Florida Constitution,
               at the time of the alleged violation as provided in F.S. ch. 162. A violation or condition
               causing a violation of this ordinance presents a serious threat to the health, safety,
               and general welfare of the public is contemplated in F.S. § 162.06(4).
Reasonable repairs that are required to bring the property into compliance.Should the town elect to make any reasonable repairs which are required to bring
               the property and compliance as contemplated in F.S. § 162.09(1), the town shall make
               every effort to make such reasonable repairs by the means most effective, least expensive,
               and least detrimental to the owner's property into the public environment. The term
               "reasonable repairs" may include, in the sole discretion of the town the following:
Demolition of an offending building or structure (including removal and disposal of
               demolition debris) leaving the property razed;
Alteration or repair of the building or structure to eliminate the violation;
Fencing the land and/or sealing the building or structure so that the violation can
               no longer reasonably pose a serious threat to the health, safety, and general welfare
               of the public;
Clear or selective cutting, controlled burning, and/or use of herbicide or similar
               chemicals to remove excessive growth of vegetation;
Killing (including use of poisons) or trapping mosquitoes, rats, mice, poisonous snakes,
               dangerous wild animals, insect vermin, and other pests as the case may be.
(Ord. No. 2019-249, § 3, 7-8-2019)
--------------------------------------------------
Sec. 16-4. - Goals in the public street right-of-way.


Definitions.For purposes of this section, the following words, terms and phrases shall have the
               meanings ascribed to them in this subsection, except where the context clearly indicates
               a different meaning:
Goalmeans any permanent and/or portable basketball goal, soccer goal, hockey goal, or
               similar recreational object.
Public street right-of-waymeans the area between property lines of a street, an easement, or other area dedicated
               for public use.
Unlawful to obstruct street.No goal shall be placed in the public street right-of-way, nor will a goal, including
               portable goal, be placed so that the public street or sidewalk is the court or playing
               surface for the goal.
Goal declared nuisance.Any goal located within the public street right-of-way is declared a nuisance. After
               giving notice of the violation by posting a notice on the goal and sending a copy
               thereof by first-class mail to the address where the goal is located and giving five
               calendar days after the notice has been posted on the goal to correct the deficiencies,
               the city shall have the authority to remove the nuisance goal and take it to the local
               landfill.
Notice been given.If notice has been given by posting the illegally placed goal or by first-class mail
               to a property owner or renter regarding the illegal placement of a goal on the city
               right-of-way within 24 months of a new subsequent violation, the goal is to be removed
               from the city right-of-way without further notice and taken to the landfill.
(Ord. No. 2019-248, § 1, 6-24-2019)
--------------------------------------------------
Sec. 16-5. - Notice to owner, occupant.


Whenever a nuisance is found to exist within the town, the town council or some duly
               designated officer of the town, upon approval by and instructions from the town council,
               shall give five days written notice to the owner, and, where applicable, the occupant
               or the property upon which such nuisance exists or upon the person causing or maintaining
               the nuisance, to abate such nuisance.
The notice to abate a nuisance issued under the provisions of this chapter shall contain:
An order to abate the nuisance or to request a hearing within a stated time, which
               shall be reasonable under the circumstances;
The location of the nuisance, if the same is stationary;
A description of what constitutes the nuisance;
A statement of acts necessary to abate the nuisance;
A statement that if the nuisance is not abated as directed or no request for hearing
               is made within the prescribed time, the town will abate such nuisance and assess the
               cost thereof against such person.
The notice to abate a nuisance shall be served as any other legal process may be served
               pursuant to law.
Upon the failure of the person upon whom notice to abate a nuisance was served pursuant
               to the provisions of this chapter to abate the same, the town council or other duly
               designated officer of the town shall proceed to abate such nuisance and shall prepare
               a statement of costs incurred in the abatement thereof. The nuisance can then be abated
               by the town's own actions and work, or by the town filing an action to abate the nuisance
               in a court of competent jurisdiction.
(Ord. No. 196, §§ 4—7, x-x-xxxx)
--------------------------------------------------
Sec. 16-6. - Abatement when immediate danger.


When, in the opinion of the town council or duly designated officer of the town, there
               is actual and immediate danger to the public or occupants of a particular premises
               caused by a nuisance on such premises, the town council or duly designated officer
               of the town is hereby authorized and empowered, without any notice or hearing, to
               order and require such premises to be vacated. The town council or other duly designated
               officer of the town shall immediately post the premises, warning of the dangerous
               condition, and shall then abate such nuisance and prepare a statement of costs incurred
               in the abatement thereof.
(Ord. No. 196, § 8, x-x-xxxx)
--------------------------------------------------
Sec. 16-7. - Abatement costs charged to owner.


Any and all costs incurred by the town in the abatement of a nuisance under the provisions
               of this chapter shall be paid by the owner of the property upon which said nuisance
               existed, and shall constitute a lien against the property upon which such nuisance
               existed.
(Ord. No. 196, § 9, x-x-xxxx)
--------------------------------------------------



Chapter 18 - OFFENSES AND MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS


--------------------------------------------------
Sec. 18-1. - Disturbing noises.


Prohibited.The creation of any unreasonably loud, disturbing and unnecessary noises in the town
               is prohibited, and it shall be unlawful for any person to cause, make or contribute
               to creating any loud, disturbing or unnecessary noise, or noises of such character,
               intensity and duration as to be detrimental to the life or health of any individual,
               or such noise as will unduly disturb the quiet and peace of the citizens of the town.
Definitions.For purposes of this section, the following words, terms and phrases shall have the
               meanings ascribed to them in this subsection, except where the context clearly indicates
               a different meaning:
A-weighted sound levelmeans the sound pressure level in decibels as measured with a sound level meter using
               the A-weighting network as described in ANSI S1.4-1983 issued by the American National
               Standards Institute. The unit of measurement is the dB(A).
C-weighted sound levelmeans the sound pressure level in decibels as measured with a sound level meter using
               the C-weighting network as described in ANSI S1.4-1983 issued by the American National
               Standards Institute. The unit of measurement is the dB(C).
Decibel (dB)means a unit for measuring the amplitude of sound, equal to 20 times the logarithm
               to the base 10 of the ratio of the pressure of the sound measured to the reference
               pressure, which is 20 micropascals (20 micronewtons per square meter).
Non-residential propertymeans any property which is not residential property.
Residential propertymeans property which satisfies all of the following criteria:
The property contains habitually occupied sleeping quarters, and
The property is located in one of the zoning districts designated as residential in
                  the town's land development code.
Soundmeans a physical disturbance causing an oscillation in pressure in a medium, such
               as air, that is capable of being detected by the human ear or a sound measuring instrument.
Sound levelmeans the weighted sound pressure level as measured in dB(A) or dB(C) by a sound
               level meter.
Sound level metermeans an instrument, including a microphone, an amplifier, an output meter, and frequency
               weighting networks, for the measurement of sound levels.
Maximum permissible sound.No person shall cause, suffer, allow, or permit the operation of any source of sound
               in such a manner as to create a sound level at a receiving property, within the town
               limits in any section of the town that exceeds the sound level limits listed in Table
               1. The land use for the complainant's property shall determine the applicable sound
               limit.
Sound level measurements.
Outdoor sound level measurements shall be taken on or within the real property line
               of the complainant.
The measurement of sound shall be made with a sound level meter which complies with
               the standards for a Type 2 sound level meter in accordance with ANSI S1.4-1983 issued
               by the American National Standards Institute. The slow response setting of the sound
               level meter shall be utilized for the measurement
Exemptions.The following shall be exempt from the sound level limits contained in this section:
Lawn mowers and yard maintenance equipment operated between 7:00 a.m. and 7:00 p.m.
               when operated with all manufacturer's standard mufflers and noise-reducing equipment
               in use and in proper operating condition.
Construction operations between 7:00 a.m. and 7:00 p.m. Monday through Saturday, and
               between 10:00 a.m. and 7:00 p.m. on Sunday, for which building permits have been issued,
               or for construction operations not requiring permits due to the scope of work or ownership
               of the project by an agency of government; provided all equipment is operated in accord
               with the manufacturer's specifications and with all standard equipment, manufacturer's
               mufflers and noise-reducing equipment in use and in proper operating condition.
Nonamplified human voice.
Nonamplified sounds emitting from lawful public assembly or public speaking.
Sounds emitting from any authorized emergency vehicle when responding to an emergency
               call or acting in time of emergency.
Sounds from safety signals, warning devices, and emergency pressure relief valves.
Electrical or mechanical equipment or devices, including compressors, generators,
               reciprocating engines, air handlers, and HVAC units, installed on or in buildings
               or facilities, leased, owned or operated by governmental entities including the Town
               of Greenville, Madison County, the Madison County School District, and the State of
               Florida.
Sounds from emergency generators when there is loss of power for any cause other than
               non-payment of utility services.
Aircraft operated in conformity with, or pursuant to, federal law, federal air regulations
               and air traffic control instruction.
Sounds emitting from the normal operations of interstate motor and rail carriers,
               to the extent that local regulation of sound levels of such vehicles has been preempted
               by the Noise Control Act of 1972 (42 USC 4901 et seq.) or other applicable federal
               laws or regulations.
Sounds from the operation of motor vehicles to the extent regulated by F.S. § 316.293.
Sounds emitting from organized sporting events; permitted fireworks displays; permitted
               parades; permitted events on public property, including public rights-of-way; or other
               activity or event specifically permitted by the town.
Sanitation operations including the unloading, emptying or collection of any waste
               or recycling container.
Sounds emitting from vehicles or equipment owned or operated by governmental entities
               including the Town of Greenville, Madison County, the Madison County School District,
               and the State of Florida, or their designees, when such vehicles or equipment are
               engaged in emergency operations, including operations during or following storms,
               accidents, or other catastrophes.
Sounds emitting from vehicles or equipment owned or operated by governmental entities
               including the Town of Greenville, Madison County, the Madison County School District,
               and the State of Florida, or their designees, when such vehicles or equipment are
               engaged in construction operations.
(Ord. No. 197, §§ 1, 2, x-x-xxxx)
--------------------------------------------------
Sec. 18-2. - Disorderly conduct.


It shall be unlawful for any person to conduct himself in a disorderly manner.
It shall be unlawful for any person to have, maintain, or conduct a house or other
               enclosure or shelter in which any person is allowed to conduct himself in a disorderly
               manner.
Definitions. The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this section, shall
               have the meanings ascribed to them in this subsection, except where the context clearly
               indicates a different meaning:
General publicmeans the Town of Greenville.
Housemeans any enclosed premises of any nature in which human beings reside, congregate
               or are employed.
In publicmeans an audible or visible action, sound or phenomena occurring or developing in
               such a location or manner that it can be determined to exist by the general public
               without the displacement or movement of a screening object or substance.
Streetmeans any street, alley, sidewalk, lane, highway or other byway or passageway owned
               or controlled by the town and open for the use of the general public.
For the purpose of this chapter, the following shall be construed to define the term
               "disorderly conduct":
The use of unnecessarily loud language in public.
The use of obscene and/or profane language in public.
To provoke and/or disturb any orderly or peaceable person.
To engage in riotous actions.
To provoke or entice others to engage in riotous action.
To utter or cause to be made unnecessary loud sounds which do and/or are calculated
               to disturb the public peace.
To be in a state of intoxication in public.
To commit or to attempt to commit any crime against the laws of nature.
To beat, bruise, whip or otherwise mistreat in an unlawful manner any person or animal.
To disturb in any manner any assembly or congregation of person, who are assembled
               or congregated in any church or public building for the purpose of conducting religious
               services.
To gamble or otherwise wager money or any other valuable thing in any game on contest
               except as is allowed by law.
The exposure in public of the human body beyond the limit of exposures allowed by
               the rules of good conduct and the customs of the common decency.
The expectoration or deposit of spittle upon the paved sidewalks of the town.
The destruction or damage of any of the public property of the town.
The destruction or damage of the property of any person within the corporate limits
               of the town.
The making, uttering, assuming or developing of any sound, action, gesture, posture
               or position that is revolting, repulsive, lewd, obscene or otherwise detrimental to
               the peace and quiet of the citizenry or is at variance.
(Ord. No. 106, §§ 1—4, 9-4-1945)
--------------------------------------------------
Sec. 18-3. - Games of chance.


Definitions.The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this section, shall have the
               meanings ascribed to them in this subsection, except where the context clearly indicates
               a different meaning:
Boardmeans the town council of the Town of Greenville, Florida.
Computer simulationmeans any simulation by means of a computer, computer system, video display, video
               system, or any other form of electronic video presentation.
Connection withmeans insertion, swiping, passing in range, or any other technical means of physically
               or electromagnetically connecting an object to a device.
Devicemeans any mechanical or electrical contrivance, computer, terminal, video, or other
               equipment that may or may not be capable of downloading games from a central server
               system, machine, computer, or other device or equipment, including any associated
               equipment necessary to conduct the operation of the device.
Gamemeans any slot machine, poker, bingo, craps, keno, any other type of game ordinarily
               played in the casino, a game involving the display of the results of a raffle, sweepstakes,
               drawing, contest, or other promotion, lotto, and game associated with gambling or
               which could be associated with gambling. The term "gambling" as used in this definition
               does not necessarily imply "gambling" as that term may be defined by statute or elsewhere.
Objectmeans a coin, bill, ticket, token, card, or similar object, obtained directly or
               indirectly through payment of consideration, or obtained as a bonus or supplement
               to another transaction involving the payment of consideration.
Payoffmeans cash, monetary or other credit, billets, tickets, tokens, or other electric
               credits to be exchanged for cash or to receive merchandise or anything of value whatsoever,
               whether made manually or automatically from a machine or device.
Personshall have the same meaning as given the term in F.S. § 1.01(3), as it may be amended
               from time to time.
Playoroperatemeans manipulate or activate using skill, the application of the element of chance,
               or both.
Qualified businessmeans any business or enterprise that derives any funds, renumeration, or benefit
               of any kind from any simulated gambling device where such simulated gambling device
               is located in the incorporated area of the town. The term "qualified business" includes,
               without limitation, establishments commonly referred to as "internet cafés" which
               means any business or enterprise engaged in selling internet time, prepaid telephone
               cards or the like which issues or purports to issue to purchasers entries into sweepstakes,
               the quantity of which is based upon the amount of the purchase, and the results of
               which can be revealed at the point of sale through a simulated gambling device where
               such simulated gambling device is located in the unincorporated area of the town.
               The term "gambling" as used in this definition does not necessarily imply "gambling"
               as that term may be defined by statute or elsewhere.
Simulated gambling devicemeans any device that, upon connection with an object, is available for playing any
               game, or for operating a computer simulation of any game, and which may deliver or
               entitle the person or persons so playing or operating to a payout, or which may reveal
               or display the results and payoff, if any, of a raffle, sweepstakes, drawing, contest,
               or other promotion, lotto, or game. The term "gambling" as used in this definition
               does not necessarily imply "gambling" as that term may be defined by statute or elsewhere.
Slot machinemeans a slot machine as defined in F.S. § 551.102(8), as it may be amended from time
               to time.
Townmeans the Town of Greenville, Florida, a political subdivision of the State of Florida.
Prohibited acts.It shall be unlawful for any person to:
Engage in or play, or permit any other person to engage in or play, at any game of
               cards, keno, roulette, faro or other games of chance by any device whatever, for money
               or other things of value, at any place within the corporate limits of the town.
Engage in any qualified business.
Advertise or promote any qualified business.
Allow or have a qualified business on real property owned or otherwise controlled
               by such person.
Fail to close or expel any qualified business from real property owned or otherwise
               controlled by such person, upon learning that such qualified business was located
               thereon.
Use any simulated gambling device in the incorporated area of the town. Each individual
               use shall be a separate violation of this ordinance.
Design, develop, manage, supervise, maintain, provide, or produce the use of a simulated
               gambling device in the incorporated area of the Town of Sneads, Florida.
Town not to grant permits.The town shall not:
Approve or issue any permit, license, rezoning, comprehensive plan amendment, conditional
               use, site plan, or take any other official action having the effect of permitting
               or allowing the construction, initial operation, or continued operation of a qualified
               business; and
Accept or process any application for any permit, license, rezoning, comprehensive
               plan amendment, conditional use, site plan, or take other official action which would
               have the effect of permitting or allowing the construction, initial operation, or
               continued operation of a qualified business.
Exceptions.This section shall not prohibit the use of slot machine-like spinning reels, video
               displays, or similar technology by a slot machine licensee of the state, or in the
               operation of a state lottery, pursuant to the provisions of a lawful gaming compact
               between the state and federally recognized Indian tribes, whether to display the results
               of a raffle, sweepstakes, contest, or other promotion, or otherwise. Further, this
               section does not prohibit establishments, only referred to as "Internet cafés" which
               sell internet time or allow access to the internet but do not use or allow simulated
               gambling devices.
Enforcement.This section may be enforced as follows:
The town may bring a civil action in any court of competent jurisdiction to enforce
               or administer this section. The town shall be entitled to an award of costs and reasonable
               attorney's fees, including appellate fees and costs, in an action successfully enforcing
               the terms of this section.
The town may enforce by any procedure permitted by F.S. ch.162.
A violation of any part of this section shall be a misdemeanor punishable in the manner
               and to the maximum extent provided by general state law.
(Ord. No. 45, § 1, 12-2-1913, Ord. No. 2019-253, § 4, 12-9-2019)
--------------------------------------------------
Sec. 18-4. - Resisting authorities.


No person shall knowingly and willfully resist, obstruct, or oppose any municipal
               police officer of the town in the execution of legal process or in the lawful execution
               of any legal duty.
(Ord. No. 124, § 1, 9-6-1955)
--------------------------------------------------
Sec. 18-5. - Unauthorized boarding of trains.


It shall be unlawful for any unauthorized person to be getting on or off any train
               while in motion.
(Ord. No. 19, 7-6-1909)
--------------------------------------------------
Sec. 18-6. - Assault and battery.


No person shall commit assault and battery within the corporate limits of the town.
               The term "assault" means an intentional, unlawful threat by word or act to do violence
               to the person of another, coupled with an apparent ability to do so, and doing some
               act which creates a well-founded fear in such other person that such violence is imminent.
(Ord. No. 128, § 1, 7-3-1956)
--------------------------------------------------
Sec. 18-7. - Larceny.


Whoever commits larceny by stealing of the property of another any money, goods or
               chattel, or any bank notes, bonds, promissory notes, value of any kind, shall, if
               the property stolen is of a value of less than $100.00, be deemed guilty of larceny.
(Ord. No. 131, § 1, 11-5-1957)
--------------------------------------------------
Sec. 18-8. - Trespass.


Whoever willfully enters into the enclosed land and premises of another, or into any
               private residence, house, building, or business establishment of another, which is
               occupied by the owner or his employees, or by the operator of such establishment or
               his employees, being forbidden so to enter, or not being previously forbidden, is
               warned to depart therefrom and refuses to do so, or having departed re-enters without
               the previous consent of the owner, or having departed remains about in the vicinity,
               using profane or indecent language, shall be deemed guilty of trespass.
(Ord. No. 137, § 1, 5-3-1960)
--------------------------------------------------



Chapter 20 - SOLID WASTE


--------------------------------------------------
Sec. 20-1. - Definitions.


The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this chapter, shall have the
               meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates
               a different meaning:
Garbagemeans any refuse matter, can, paper, bag, carton or box which can be deposited in
               an approved garbage can or garbage holding box.
Garbage canmeans only an impervious, cylindric, metallic can, plastic or other suitable container,
               and which has a removable lid so designed as to act as a closefitting hood, and which
               further has two handles upon the sides of the can or container or a bail by which
               it may be lifted. No can or container shall have a capacity of more than 32 gallons.
Garbage holding boxmeans an impervious enclosed area constructed in accordance and meeting the approval
               of the town, or its designated representative, which has a removable lid or other
               opening so designed as to act as a close-fitting cover or entrance to such garbage
               holding box, and which is construed in such a manner as to afford reasonable access
               for the removal of the garbage deposited therein.
Trashmeans and includes yard or shrubbery clippings, grass cuttings, leaves and such other
               small rubbish or refuse (other than as defined in the term "garbage") ordinarily accumulated
               about a residential premises.
Waste materialsmeans and includes sand, wood, stone, brick, cement, concrete, roofing and other
               refuse building materials usually left over from a construction or remodeling project,
               and trees, tree limbs, tree trunks and tree stumps; also the waste products of industrial
               plants.
(Ord. No. 159, § 1, 9-19-1978)
--------------------------------------------------
Sec. 20-2. - Garbage can or holding box required.


All owners, tenants or occupants of residences, apartments and places of business
               within the municipal limits of the town are hereby required to provide a garbage can
               or garbage holding box, as hereinbefore defined, of sufficient capacity to hold four
               days' accumulation of garbage in residential areas, and of sufficient capacity to
               hold garbage between the regularly scheduled pick-up periods in all other areas.
(Ord. No. 159, § 2, 9-19-1978)
--------------------------------------------------
Sec. 20-3. - Disposition of garbage.


All garbage shall be daily deposited in the garbage cans or garbage holding boxes
               hereinabove required; garbage cans and garbage holding boxes shall be kept tightly
               covered and closed at all times except when it is necessary to lift the cover or open
               the entrance to deposit garbage.
(Ord. No. 159, § 3, 9-19-1978)
--------------------------------------------------
Sec. 20-4. - Accessibility of garbage can.


Garbage cans or garbage holding boxes shall be kept in a place easily and safely accessible
               to garbage collectors and inspectors authorized by the town. They shall not be kept
               upon property not in the ownership of tenancy of the person by whom the garbage is
               accumulated and shall be subject to inspection and approval of condition by the inspectors
               of the sanitary garbage collection and disposal system of the town.
(Ord. No. 159, § 4, 9-19-1978)
--------------------------------------------------
Sec. 20-5. - Collection of garbage.


All garbage cans and garbage holding boxes shall be emptied and disposition made of
               the contents thereof at such times and schedules as may be from time to time set by
               the town council. All garbage shall be disposed of only at the town garbage dump or
               dumps approved by the town council.
(Ord. No. 159, § 5, 9-19-1978)
--------------------------------------------------
Sec. 20-6. - Unauthorized disposal of garbage and trash.


It shall be unlawful to deposit garbage or trash upon any vacant or unoccupied premises
               or upon any street, alley or park or in any pond, pool or lake within the town limits.
(Ord. No. 159, § 6, 9-19-1978)
--------------------------------------------------
Sec. 20-7. - Unauthorized accumulation of garbage, trash or waste materials.


Any parcel of property, occupied or not occupied, where there is garbage, trash, or
               waste material being accumulated on such premises, shall be subject to the requirements
               of this chapter andshall provide approved containers for pick-up; alternatively, the
               occupant or owner may be required to remove the same at his expense.
(Ord. No. 159, § 8, 9-19-1978)
--------------------------------------------------
Sec. 20-8. - Fees.


A uniform monthly schedule of rates and charges for the collection, removal and disposal
               of garbage in the town is established and amended as deemed appropriate by the council;
               such fees and charges to be paid by the owner, tenant or occupant of the premises
               from which such garbage is produced, collected, supplied, gathered or furnished.
(Ord. No. 159, § 10, 9-19-1978)
--------------------------------------------------
Sec. 20-9. - Penalty, discontinuation of garbage services.


The failure to utilize the system maintained by the town for the collection and disposal
               of garbage, trash and other refuse within the town, and to pay therefor the fees and
               charges for the removal of garbage, trash and other refuse as may be from time to
               time established by the town, shall be grounds for and the discontinuation by the
               town of the use of the municipal water works system by such person, firm or corporation
               so failing to utilize and pay for the collection and disposal of garbage, trash and
               other refuse within the town, and the town may thereafter refuse.
The failure to timely submit payment for garbage services shall subject residents
               to late fees and discontinuation consistent with those imposed for water and sewer
               services as set forth insection 26-4.
Should the use of garbage services be so denied to any person the right to resume
               the utilization of such garbage services may be restored to the uniform policies and
               conditions as may be from time to time established by the town council and upon full
               compliance with the requirements of this chapter.
In addition to other penalties as provided by law, any person or business failing
               to provide approved garbage cans or garbage holding boxes in an area with convenient
               and safe access to permit pick up by the town shall relinquish his right to garbage
               pick-up services and shall be in violation of this chapter.
(Ord. No. 171, §§ 1, 2, 2-5-1985; Ord. No.2021-265, § 1, 5-10-2021)
--------------------------------------------------
Sec. 20-10. - Reserved.


--------------------------------------------------



Chapter 22 - STREETS, SIDEWALKS AND PUBLIC PLACES


--------------------------------------------------
ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL


--------------------------------------------------
Secs. 22-1—22-18. - Reserved.


--------------------------------------------------
ARTICLE II. - STREETS AND SIDEWALKS


--------------------------------------------------
Sec. 22-19. - Heavy vehicles.


Prohibited.No buses, motor homes, recreational vehicles, trailers, truck tractors, trailer coaches,
               utility trailers, watercraft, boats on trailers, semi-trailers, or any commercial
               vehicle exceeding 10,000 pounds gross vehicle weight rating or twenty five feet in
               length, may be operated upon the streets of the town other than those streets designated
               as a state or federal highway.
Exceptions.The following are exceptions to this article:
Such heavy vehicles as are traveling on streets by necessity in order to permit the
               operator to make a local delivery or accomplish some other limited, lawful, occasional,
               and temporary purpose. In the event such a vehicle causes damage to a street they
               shall be liable for all costs to repair said street;
The operation of heavy vehicles upon any street where necessary to the conduct of
               business at a destination point within the city provided streets allowed for truck
               traffic are used until reaching the intersection nearest the destination point. In
               the event such a vehicle causes damage to a street they shall be liable for all costs
               to repair said street;
The operation of emergency vehicles upon any street in the city;
The operation of school buses; and
The operation of vehicles owned or operated by the city, public utilities, any contractor
               or materialman which is and while engaged in the repair, maintenance or construction
               of streets, street improvements, utilities, or sanitation collection within the city.
(Ord. No. 2019-254, § 1, 12-9-2019)
--------------------------------------------------
Secs. 22-20—22-39. - Reserved.


--------------------------------------------------
ARTICLE III. - PARKS


--------------------------------------------------
Sec. 22-40. - Park hours.


During the calendar period of April 1 through September 30, the use of Haffye Hays
               Park and the James Tracy Stephens Recreational Park shall be closed to use by the
               general public excluded therefrom from 7:00 p.m. of each day until 7:00 a.m. on the
               following day.
During the calendar period of October 1 through March 31, the use of Haffye Hays Park
               and the James Tracy Stephens Recreational Park shall be closed to use by the general
               public excluded therefrom from 6:00 p.m. of each day until 7:00 a.m. on the following
               day.
(Ord. No. 177, §§ 1, 2, 2-1988)
--------------------------------------------------
Sec. 22-41. - Use of park after hours; permit required.


Should any group of persons or any organization desire to use the aforesaid facilities
               during any of the prohibited hours, then such group of persons or organization may
               make written application to the town manager for a permit to utilize such facilities
               after hours. Any such application approved by the town manager shall thereafter be
               subject to revocation by the town council, at its discretion, and upon notice.
(Ord. No. 177, § 3, 2-1988)
--------------------------------------------------
Sec. 22-42. - Permit required—For selling or offering goods.


Vendors and others may not sell goods or otherwise offer goods to others for which
               a fee is collected or donation solicited in the parks without first obtaining a written
               permit from the town manager for a fee to be set by the town council, except as part
               of an organized event approved by the town council.
(Ord. No. 239, § 1, 1-23-2017)
--------------------------------------------------
Sec. 22-43. - Permit required—For certain uses or conducting organized activities.


Vendors and others may not conduct any organized activity, as provided below, in the
               parks for which a fee is collected or donation solicited, except as part of an organized
               event approved by the town manager.
The following specified organized activities are prohibited in the parks, except as
               part of an organized event approved by the town council, or by permit issued by the
               town:
Possession or use of alcoholic beverages where such approval specifically allows use
               of alcoholic beverages.
Operation of radio-controlled or tethered aircraft.
Operating, stopping or parking of vehicles, except in designated parking areas.
Discharge of firearms or fireworks where such approval specifically allows discharge
               of firearms or fireworks.
Use of sound amplification systems.
Solicitation.
Horseback riding or possession of animals, other than common domestic animals such
               as dogs and cats.
(Ord. No. 239, §§ 2, 4, 1-23-2017)
--------------------------------------------------
Sec. 22-44. - Prohibited activities.


The following are prohibited in the parks:
Discarding of trash, garbage or other litter, except into containers for that purpose.
Damaging, defacing or removing property of the town, except by the town.
Fires, except in areas where fires are permitted by normal use, such as in charcoal
                  grills.
Use of profane, threatening or abusive language.
Smoking tobacco or any other products.
(Ord. No. 239, § 3, 1-23-2017)
--------------------------------------------------



Chapter 24 - TAXATION


--------------------------------------------------
ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL


--------------------------------------------------
Secs. 24-1—24-18. - Reserved.


--------------------------------------------------
ARTICLE II. - PUBLIC SERVICE TAX[1]


--------------------------------------------------
Sec. 24-19. - Public service tax levied.


There is hereby levied and imposed on each and every purchase in the town of electricity,
               metered or bottled gas (natural, liquified petroleum gas, or manufactured gas), except
               as hereinafter provided, a tax of eight percent of the payments received by the sellers
               of such public services from the purchasers for.
(Ord. No. 142, § 1, 9-2-1964; Ord. No. 162, § 1, 11-4-1980; Ord. No. 165, § 1, x-x-xxxx;
               Ord. No. 170, § 1, 11-6-1984; Ord. No. 180, § 1, 11-7-1989)
--------------------------------------------------
Sec. 24-20. - Public service tax exemptions.


The United States of America and it agencies, the state, county, town, and other tax
               supported bodies, authorities, boards and commissions are hereby exempt from the payment
               of the tax levied by this article.
(Ord. No. 142, § 2, 9-2-1964)
--------------------------------------------------
Sec. 24-21. - Duty of seller to collect and pay tax.


It shall be the duty of every seller of electricity, metered or bottled gas (natural,
               liquefied petroleum gas or manufactured gas) to collect from the purchaser for the
               use of the town, the tax hereby levied at the time of collecting the selling price
               charged for such service, but not less frequently than monthly. The seller shall report
               and pay over on or before the tenth day of each calendar month to the town all such
               taxes collected the preceding month.
(Ord. No. 142, § 4, 9-2-1964)
--------------------------------------------------
Sec. 24-22. - When collected and paid.


It shall be unlawful for any seller to collect the price of any sale of electricity
               and metered or bottled gas (natural, liquified petroleum gas, or manufactured gas)
               without, at the same time, collecting the tax hereby levied in respect to such sale
               unless such seller shall elect to assume and pay such tax without collecting the same
               from the purchaser. When any seller fails to collect such tax in like manner, or when
               any seller has failed to pay the tax to the town when the same had been actually paid
               to the seller, the town attorney is hereby authorized to bring such suits and actions
               and to take all proceedings in the name of the town as may be necessary for the recovery
               of such tax; provided, however, that the seller shall not be liable for the payment
               of such tax upon uncollected bills. If any purchaser shall fail, neglect or refuse
               to pay unto the seller the seller's charge and the tax hereby imposed on account of
               the sale for which such charge is made, the seller shall have and he is hereby vested
               with the right, power, and authority to immediately discontinue service to such purchaser
               until the tax and the seller's bill have been paid in full.
(Ord. No. 142, § 5, 9-2-1964)
--------------------------------------------------
Sec. 24-23. - Record keeping required.


Each and every seller of electricity and metered or bottled gas (natural, liquified
               petroleum gas or manufactured gas) shall keep complete records showing all sales in
               the town of such commodities or service, which records shall show the price charged
               upon the sale, the date thereof and the date of payment therefor, and the records
               shall be kept open for inspection by the duly authorized agents of the town during
               business hours on all business days, and duly authorized agents of the town shall
               have the right, power and authority to examine such records and make transcripts thereof
               during such times as they may desire.
(Ord. No. 142, § 6, 9-2-1964)
--------------------------------------------------
Sec. 24-24. - When paid on aggregate sales.


In all cases where the seller of electricity and metered or bottled gas (natural,
               liquified petroleum gas, or manufactured gas) collects the price thereof at monthly
               periods, the tax hereby imposed may be computed on the aggregate amount of sales during
               such period, provided that the amount of tax to be collected shall be the nearest
               whole cent to the amount computed.
(Ord. No. 142, § 7, 9-2-1964)
--------------------------------------------------
Sec. 24-25. - Revenues deposited to the general fund.


All revenues received, collected and derived from the tax imposed by this article
               shall be deposited in the general fund of the town.
(Ord. No. 142, § 8, 9-2-1964)
--------------------------------------------------



Chapter 26 - UTILITIES: CABLE, ELECTRICITY AND NATURAL GAS


--------------------------------------------------
ARTICLE I. - IN GENERAL


--------------------------------------------------
Sec. 26-1. - Unlawful connection.


No person shall be allowed to connect into any water line or sewer line owned by the
               town without the written consent of the town, and then the connection with such line
               shall be made only under the direction and supervision of the town, and after all
               required fees are paid.
(Ord. No. 184, § 5, 12-4-1990)
--------------------------------------------------
Sec. 26-2. - Unlawful construction.


No person, group of persons, firm or corporation shall build or remodel or cause to
               be built or remodeled any structure used for human habitation or occupancy within
               the town which is within 200 feet of a public sanitary sewer line, unless it is provided
               with water-carried sewerage facilities.
(Ord. No. 184, § 6, 12-4-1990)
--------------------------------------------------
Sec. 26-3. - Connecting old plumbing.


Whenever it is desirable to connect old plumbing with the town waterworks or sewer
               system, the owner or plumber contemplating doing such work shall notify the official
               designated by the town of what alterations will be necessary to place said old plumbing
               in an acceptable condition for such connection. Any owner or plumber who shall make
               any connection without the approval of the town shall, upon conviction, be subject
               to the penalties hereinafter provided.
(Ord. No. 184, § 7, 12-4-1990)
--------------------------------------------------
Sec. 26-4. - Charges and payment requirements.


In addition to the monthly rates charged for water and sewer services, the town imposes
               the following charges related to water and sewer service, as applicable:
All monthly charges and rates for customers and users outside the town limits shall
               be 50 percent higher than the rates set forth in this chapter for customers inside
               the town limits.
Prior to connecting to the town's sewer or waterworks system, all new residential,
               commercial and industrial users of the town's sewer system, and all such users being
               re-connected to the town's sewer system, shall pay a connection fee as established
               by the town council.
A service call fee in an amount to be determined by the council from time to time
               shall be charged for each service call made to a user's premises unless the service
               call is due to a problem or deficiency in the town's facilities.
Bills for garbage services, utilities, sewer services, and water services, rendered
               by the first of the month, are required to be paid by no later than 4:30 p.m. on the
               15th day of the month. If not paid by the 15th day of the month, there shall be assessed
               a penalty of ten percent of the total bill.
In the event that the 15th day of the month falls on a weekend or holiday, the payment
               shall be due no later than 4:30 p.m. on the first business day following the 15th
               day of the month in order to avoid penalty assessment.
If a bill for garbage services, utilities, sewer services, and water services, rendered
               by the first of the month, remains unpaid by no later than 4:30 p.m. on the 20th day
               of the month, all services will be suspended on the next business day and shall not
               be reconnected until all past due charges have been fully paid.
In the event that the 20th day of the month falls on a weekend or holiday, the payment
               shall be due no later than 4:30 p.m. on the first business day following the 20th
               day of the month in order to avoid suspension of services.
For sewer service and water service, there shall be a cut-on fee in an amount determined
               by the town after such discontinuation of service. Such cut-on services will be provided
               during regular business hours.
When water service is furnished to more than a single dwelling unit through one water
               service meter, the above monthly rates and charges shall be collected for each of
               the multi-unit dwellings by the owner of the property and its payment shall be the
               owner's, who shall be responsible to pay same.
(Ord. No.2021-265, § 3, 5-10-2021)
--------------------------------------------------
Sec. 26-5. - Collecting of sewer fees where owner has private water supply.


Where sewage disposal fees are not paid as required by this chapter, and where the
               owner has his own private water supply, the town shall have a right to cut off such
               water supply to the plumbing system and the owner shall have no right to reconnect
               his own private water supply until the sewage disposal fees shall have been paid in
               full.
(Ord. No. 184, § 13, 12-4-1990)
--------------------------------------------------
Sec. 26-6. - Proper maintenance of private lines.


The property owner shall maintain all private plumbing on the property, including
               the pipes leading and connecting from the waterworks system distribution lines and
               the town's sewer main. Failure to keep the private plumbing system clean and maintained
               in a proper manner will give the town the right to cut off the water connection, which
               shall not be reconnected until the sewer pipe is cleaned and maintained properly.
               In those instances where the owner has his own private water supply, the town shall
               have the right to cut off such water supply to the plumbing system, and the owner
               shall have no right to reconnect his own private water supply until the sewer pipe
               leading from the plumbing system to the town main has been maintained and cleaned
               and in proper condition.
(Ord. No. 184, § 14, 12-4-1990)
--------------------------------------------------
Sec. 26-7. - No service free.


Neither water nor sewage disposal service shall be furnished or rendered free of charge
               to any person, firm or corporation whatsoever, and the town and each and every agency,
               department of instrumentality which uses either of these services shall pay therefor
               at the rates fixed by this chapter.
(Ord. No. 184, § 15, 12-4-1990)
--------------------------------------------------
Sec. 26-8. - Separate connections for each separate unit.


Each residential unit, whether occupying one or more lots and whether it shall occupy
               any lot or parcel jointly with any other residential unit, shall be considered a separate
               unit for the payment of the water fees and the sewage disposal fees, and separate
               connections and meters will be required for each of such.
(Ord. No. 184, § 16, 12-4-1990)
--------------------------------------------------
Secs. 26-9—26-36. - Reserved.


--------------------------------------------------
ARTICLE II. - SEWER SERVICE


--------------------------------------------------
Sec. 26-37. - Connections with sewer required.


The owner of each lot or parcel of land within the town, upon which lot or parcel
               of land any building, or trailer used as a dwelling, is now situated or shall hereafter
               be situated, for either residential, commercial or industrial use, shall connect or
               cause such building or trailer to be connected with the public sewer facilities of
               the municipal sewer system of the town and use such facilities within three months
               following notification to do so by the clerk of the town. All such connections shall
               be made in accordance with rules and regulations which shall be adopted from time
               to time by the town council. A charge for making such connections, service calls,
               other charges as may be required by the town shall be paid as provided in this article.
               No connection shall be required where said sewer system or line is more than 200 feet
               from such lot or parcel of land.
(Ord. No. 184, § 1, 12-4-1990)
--------------------------------------------------
Sec. 26-38. - Exceptions to connections.


Nothing in this article is intended to require or entitle any person to cross the
               private property of another to make any such sewer or water connection.
(Ord. No. 184, § 2, 12-4-1990)
--------------------------------------------------
Sec. 26-39. - Connections made by town.


If any such owner or any lot or parcel of land within the town shall fail or refuse
               to connect with and use the facilities of the sewer system of the town after notification
               by the town clerk, as provided herein, then the town shall be authorized to make such
               connections, entering on or upon any such lot or parcel of land for the purpose of
               making such connection. The town shall thereupon be entitled to recover the cost of
               making such connection, together with reasonable penalties and interest and attorney's
               fees, by suit in any court of competent jurisdiction. In addition and as an alternative
               means of collecting such costs of making such connection, the town shall have a lien
               on such lot or parcel of land for such cost, which lien shall be of equal dignity
               with the lien of the state and county and municipal taxes. Such lien may be foreclosed
               by the town in the same manner provided by state law for the foreclosure or mortgages
               upon real estate.
(Ord. No. 184, § 3, 12-4-1990)
--------------------------------------------------
Sec. 26-40. - Industrial use.


Industrial sewer rates shall be negotiated between the user and the town based upon
               the strength and character of the wastewater. If, in the town's opinion, the strength
               and character of such wastewater is consistent with normal domestic wastewater, then
               the above commercial use rates shall apply. The town shall have the right to require
               an industrial user to enter into a contract with the town for sewer services specifying
               among other things rates and requirements for pre-treatment. The town shall have the
               right to refuse sewer service to any industrial user if the town's sewer system cannot
               effectively and legally treat and dispose of such wastewater.
All volume readings for residential, commercial and industrial uses shall be rounded
               up to the nearest 1,000 gallons.
(Ord. No. 236, § 1, 11-9-2015)
--------------------------------------------------
Sec. 26-41. - Sewer impact fees.


Impact fees. Prior to connecting to the town's sewer system, all new residential and
               commercial users of the town's sewer system, and all current residential and commercial
               users being upgraded to a larger water meter, before being connected to the town's
               sewer system, shall pay to the town an impact fee as determined by the council from
               time to time.
Such impact fees shall apply to any and all new building construction, improvements,
               upgrades, additions, or expansion of current residential or commercial uses which
               shall result in an increase or potential increase of wastewater disposal or alteration
               of the existing wastewater disposal system on any property.
Industrial impact fees shall be negotiated between the user and the town based upon
               the strength and character of the wastewater, and the anticipated impact on the town's
               sewer system. If, in the town's opinion, the strength and character of such wastewater,
               and its impact on the town's sewer system is consistent with normal domestic wastewater,
               then the above impact fees shall apply. The town shall have the right to require an
               industrial user to enter into a contract with the town for such impact fees.
Provided, however, nothing herein shall be deemed to change the moratorium on impact
               fees adopted by the town council in Ord. No. 235 passed on July 14, 2014. Such moratorium
               shall remain in place until specifically lifted by the town council.
Exceptions. The owners of water meters used exclusively for irrigation that do not
               result in sewage disposal of wastewater to the town's sewer system shall not be obligated
               to pay the sewer or impact fees in this section.
(Ord. No. 184, § 4, 12-4-1990; Ord. No. 226, § 2, x-x-xxxx; Ord. No. 237, § 1, 11-9-2015)
--------------------------------------------------
Sec. 26-42. - Sanitary requirements.


Every residence and building in which human beings reside, are employed or congregated
               shall be required to have a sanitary method of disposing of human excrement, namely
               either a sanitary water closet that is connected with the town sewer, or an approved
               type of septic tank. A septic tank will be used only if the property is more than
               200 feet from the sewer line.
(Ord. No. 184, § 8, 12-4-1990)
--------------------------------------------------
Sec. 26-43. - Disposal requirements.


It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation owning or leasing any premises
               in the town to permit the disposal of any human excrement on any property, leased
               or rented by any such person, firm or corporation or the agent of any such person,
               firm or corporation, except in a sanitary waste closet where sewage lines are available
               as defined above.
(Ord. No. 184, § 9, 12-4-1990)
--------------------------------------------------
Sec. 26-44. - Septic tank.


No septic tank, other than those approved by the appropriate government agency, shall
               be constructed within the corporate limits of the town. No septic tank shall be constructed
               within 200 feet of the sewer line.
(Ord. No. 184, § 10, 12-4-1990)
--------------------------------------------------
Secs. 26-45—26-61. - Reserved.


--------------------------------------------------
ARTICLE III. - WATER SERVICE


--------------------------------------------------
Sec. 26-62. - Connections with water works system.


Where the same shall be available, the owner of every lot or parcel of land within
               the town may connect, or cause the plumbing of any building thereon to be connected,
               with the municipal waterworks system of the town and use the facilities of such water
               system. All such connections shall be made in accordance with rules and regulations
               which shall be adopted from time to time by the council, which rules and regulations
               shall provide for a charge for making any such connections in such reasonable amount
               as such council may fix and determine. Provided, however, that this article shall
               not be construed to entitle any person to cross the private property of another to
               make such water connections; and provided, further, that there shall be no connection
               charge for connections during the initial construction of any distribution line of
               the waterworks system.
(Ord. No. 145, § 1, 5-6-1969)
--------------------------------------------------
Sec. 26-63. - Charge or rate for water service.


Any user of the services of the waterworks system shall pay therefor a monthly charge
               or rate, connection fee, late charge, deposit, and other fees, as established by the
               town.
Refund of deposit. Upon a user of the services of the waterworks system of the town,
               notifying the town that such user will no longer utilize the services of such system,
               and upon such user being disconnected from such municipal waterworks system, the deposit
               of such user, or any remaining balance of the deposit of such user, will be refunded
               to such user.
(Ord. No. 145, § 2, 5-6-1969; Ord. No. 169, § 1, 11-6-1984; Ord. No. 179, § 1, 11-7-1989;
               Ord. No. 182, § 1, 9-4-1990)
--------------------------------------------------
Sec. 26-64. - Fees for industrial use.


Industrial water rates shall be negotiated between the user and the town based upon
               the volume and other characteristics of anticipated use. If, in the town's opinion,
               the volume and other characteristics of such water needs is consistent with normal
               domestic water use, then the above commercial use rates shall apply. The town shall
               have the right to require an industrial user to enter into a contract with the town
               for water services. The town shall have the right to refuse water service to any industrial
               user if the town's water system cannot effectively provide for such use.
All volume readings for residential, commercial and industrial uses shall be rounded
               up to the nearest 1,000 gallons.
(Ord. No. 236, § 1, 11-9-2015)
--------------------------------------------------



Appendix A - FEE SCHEDULE FOR THE TOWN OF GREENVILLE, FLORIDA


(Ord. No. 119, § 4, x-x-1992)
(Ord. No. 159, § 10, 9-19-1978; Ord. No. 160, § 1, 10-2-1979; Ord. No. 164, § 1, 8-4-1981)
(Ord. No. 236, § 1, 11-9-2015)
(Ord. No. 184, § 4, 12-4-1990; Ord. No. 226, § 2, x-x-xxxx; Ord. No. 237, § 1, 11-9-2015)
(Ord. No. 145, § 2, 5-6-1969; Ord. No. 169, § 1, 11-6-1984; Ord. No. 179, § 1, 11-7-1989;
            Ord. No. 182, § 1, 9-4-1990)
--------------------------------------------------



CODE COMPARATIVE TABLE - LEGISLATION


This is a chronological listing of the ordinances and resolutionsof the Town of Greenville,
            Florida used in this Code. Repealed or superseded laws at the time of the codification
            and any omitted materials are not reflected in the table.
--------------------------------------------------



STATE LAW REFERENCE TABLE


This table shows the location within the Code, either in the text or notes following
            the text, of references to the Florida Statutes (F.S.).
--------------------------------------------------



